Hurricane Sally lumbered ashore near the Florida-Alabama line Wednesday with 105 mph (165 kph) winds and rain measured in feet, not inches, killing at least one person, swamping homes and forcing the rescue of hundreds as it pushed inland for what could be a slow and disastrous drenching across the Deep South. The death happened in Orange Beach, Alabama, according to Mayor Tony Kennon, who also told The Associated Press that one person was missing. Kennon said he couldn't immediately release details. Moving at just 3 mph (5 kph), or about as fast as a person can walk, the storm made landfall at 4:45 a.m. close to Gulf Shores, Alabama, about 30 miles (50 kilometers) from Pensacola, Florida. It accelerated to a light jog as it battered the Pensacola and Mobile, Alabama, metropolitan areas encompassing nearly 1 million people. Sally cast boats onto land or sank them at the dock, flattened palm trees, peeled away roofs, blew down signs and knocked out power to more than 540,000 homes and businesses. 
A replica of Christopher Columbus’ ship the Nina that had been docked at the Pensacola waterfront was missing, police said. Sally tore loose a barge-mounted construction crane, which then smashed into the new Three Mile Bridge over Pensacola Bay, causing a section of the year-old span to collapse, authorities said. The storm also ripped away a large section of a fishing pier at Alabama’s Gulf State Park on the very day a ribbon-cutting had been scheduled following a $2.4 million renovation. 
By the afternoon, authorities in Escambia County, which includes Pensacola, said at least 377 people had been rescued from flooded areas. More than 40 people trapped by high water were brought to safety within a single hour, including a family of four found in a tree, Sheriff David Morgan said. Authorities in Pensacola said 200 National Guard members would arrive Thursday to help. Curfews were announced in Escambia County and in some coastal Alabama towns. Sally turned some Pensacola streets into white-capped rivers early Wednesday. 
Sodden debris and flooded cars were left behind as the water receded. By early afternoon, Sally had weakened into a tropical storm. It was downgraded to a depression late Wednesday night with 35 mph (55 kph) sustained winds. 
The National Weather Service said the system was still forecast to dump 4 inches (10 centimeters) to 8 inches (29 centimeters) of rain in southeast Alabama and central Georgia by Thursday night, with up to 1 foot (30.48 centimeters) in some spots. At least eight waterways in south Alabama and the Florida Panhandle were expected to hit their major flood levels by Thursday. Some of the crests could break records, submerge bridges and flood some homes, the National Weather Service warned. Morgan, the Escambia County sheriff, estimated thousands would need to flee rising waters in the coming days. Escambia officials urged residents to rely on text messages for contacting family and friends to keep cellphone service open for 911 calls. “There are entire communities that we’re going to have to evacuate,” the sheriff said. “It's going to be a tremendous operation over the next several days.” West of Pensacola, in Perdido Key, Florida, Joe Mirable arrived at his real estate business to find the two-story building shattered. Digging through the ruins, Mirable pointed out a binder labeled “Hurricane Action Plan.” “I think the professionals got this one wrong,” he said before the wind blew away his hat. 
More than 2 feet (61 centimeters) of rain was recorded near Naval Air Station Pensacola, and nearly 3 feet (1 meter) of water covered streets in downtown Pensacola, the National Weather Service reported. “It’s not common that you start measuring rainfall in feet,” said forecaster David Eversole. Sally was the second hurricane to hit the Gulf Coast in less than three weeks and the latest to blow in during one of the busiest hurricane seasons ever. Forecasters have nearly run through the alphabet of storm names with 2 1/2 months still to go. At the start of the week, Sally was one of a record-tying five storms churning simultaneously in the Atlantic basin. Like the wildfires raging on the West Coast, the onslaught of hurricanes has focused attention on climate change, which scientists say is causing slower, rainier, more powerful and more destructive storms. 
An emergency crew rescued two people on Dauphin Island, Alabama, after the hurricane ripped the roof off their home and the rest of the house began to crumble. Mayor Jeff Collier said no one was injured. In Orange Beach, Alabama, the wind blew out the walls in one corner of a condominium building, exposing at least five floors. 
At least 50 people were rescued from flooded homes and taken to shelters, Mayor Tony Kennon said. “We got a few people that we just haven’t been able to get to because the water is so high,” Kennon said. “But they are safe in their homes. As soon as the water recedes, we will rescue them.” Sally’s crawl made it hard to predict where it would strike. Just two days before landfall, the storm was forecast to hit New Orleans — 140 miles (225 kilometers) west of where it came ashore. Robert Lambrisky and his husband were caught somewhat off guard when the hurricane shook their door before daybreak and forced rainwater inside their home in Sanders Beach near Pensacola. “We had some warning, but this was just such a strange storm,” Lambrisky said. “All of this preparing that you do, when you know the storm is coming, was something we only half did because we were convinced the storm wasn’t going to hit us.” Sally's effects were felt all along the northern Gulf Coast, affecting low-lying properties in Mississippi and southeastern Louisiana. 
Hurricane Laura pummeled southwestern Louisiana on Aug 27th. Thousands of people were still without power from that storm, and some were still in shelters. Meanwhile, far out in the Atlantic, Teddy became a hurricane Wednesday with winds of 100 mph (160 kph). Forecasters said it could reach Category 4 strength before closing in on Bermuda, which took a direct hit from Hurricane Paulette only days ago. 
Hurricane Eta continues to spin across northern Nicaragua after lashing the country’s Caribbean coast for much of Tuesday, isolating already remote communities and setting off deadly landslides in two countries that killed at least three people. The storm had weakened by late Tuesday, but was moving so slowly and dumping so much rain that much of Central America was on high alert. Eta came ashore Tuesday afternoon south of the Nicaraguan city of Bilwi as a powerful Category 4 hurricane after stalling just off the coast for hours. The city of about 60,000 had been without power since Monday evening. Corrugated metal roofing and uprooted trees were scattered through its streets. 
Some 20,000 of the area's residents were in shelters. Inland, about 100 miles (160 kilometers) west of where Eta made landfall, two gold miners were killed when a mountainside unleashed tons of mud Tuesday morning. A third miner escaped the slide and sought help. One body was recovered before rescuers had to suspend recovery efforts due to nightfall and fears that more slides could occur as the rain continued, said Lt. Cesar Malespin of the Bonanza Fire Department. He said recovery efforts would continue Wednesday. 
Bonanza was getting lashed by strong winds and torrential rain, he said. The storm has been drenching neighboring Honduras with rain since at least Sunday and the country reported its first death attributed to Eta early Tuesday. A 12-year-old girl died in a mudslide in San Pedro Sula, the main population center in northern Honduras, said Marvin Aparicio, director of the national system of incident commands for Honduras’ emergency management agency. In Honduras, there were at least 559 people affected by flooding who had to move to shelters or go to relatives’ homes, he said. At least 25 people had been rescued, he said. His agency reported at least six rivers causing significant flooding. 
Forecasters said central and northern Nicaragua and much of Honduras could get 15 to 25 inches (380 to 635 millimeters) of rain, with 35 inches (890 millimeters) in isolated areas. Heavy rains also were likely in eastern Guatemala, southern Belize and Jamaica. Nicaragua’s remote northeast where Eta made landfall was already isolated before the storm. Crossing the wide Wawa river to reach Bilwi, also known as Puerto Cabezas, the main city in the region, requires riding a ferry, which had suspended operations as the storm approached, making driving to the impact zone impossible. Cairo Jarquin, emergency response project manager in Nicaragua for Catholic Relief Services, said the immediate concern in northeastern Nicaragua after the storm’s passage would be getting water and food to those remote communities. The majority of the region’s inhabitants are Miskito, who live through subsistence farming or fishing, Jarquin said. Most of their homes are simple wooden construction concentrated in riverside communities that likely suffered heavy damage. They depend on hand dug wells for drinking water, which he feared would be contaminated by floodwaters. As the storm continued west toward Nicaragua’s mountains and the border with Honduras concerns grew that it could have devastating impact on the country’s coffee crop — a key export — just as the harvest was set to begin. 
Eta already led Honduras to cancel a long weekend that had been scheduled to begin Wednesday. The extra-long weekend was supposed to spur tourism and help the economy strangled by the coronavirus pandemic. Instead, Eta promised to bring several more days of rain to the region. 
New Hurricane Eta quickly gained force Monday as it headed for Central America on the verge of becoming a major hurricane, threatening massive flooding and landslides across a vulnerable region. Eta had maximum sustained winds of 110 mph (175 kph) and was located about 115 miles (185 kilometers) east of the Nicaragua-Honduras border, according to the National Hurricane Center. It was moving west at 9 mph (15 kph). It said the storm could strengthen further and become a major hurricane before running ashore by early Tuesday, likely in Nicaragua, where it could bring rains measured in feet rather than inches. 
Forecasters said central and northern Nicaragua into much of Honduras could get 15 to 25 inches (380 to 640 millimeters) of rain, with 35 inches (890 millimeters) in isolated areas. Heavy rains also were likely in eastern Guatemala, southern Belize and Jamaica. Storm surge up to 15 feet (4.5 meters) above normal tides was possible for the coast of Nicaragua. The hurricane center also warned of life-threatening flash flooding and landslides in areas with higher terrain. 
Nicaragua’s navy evacuated the Miskito Cays of about 1,650 residents along the coast on Sunday and prohibited launching any boats along the stretch of coastline expected to receive Eta. Offshore residents were taken to shelters in Bilwi, also known as Puerto Cabezas, the primary city of the Northern Caribbean Autonomous Region that is home to some 66,000 people, according to Guillermo González, director of the Nicaragua’s national emergency management agency. Northeastern Nicaragua is sparsely populated, home to small coastal villages and a large nature reserve. González said that 88 tons of rice, oil, corn and other food basics had been to the area. The Rio Coco, which makes up part of the border with Honduras, is home to many Indigenous communities. It is known to overwhelm its banks in heavy tropical rains. Nicaragua’s government has also placed northern provinces on alert as Eta is expected to move through the country’s northern mountains after coming ashore. Eta's expected path through Central America while dumping prodigious amounts of rain was already raising references to Hurricane Mitch, the 1998 storm that killed thousands in the region. Eta nearly tripled in strength in just 24 hours, rapidly intensifying from a 40 mph (65 kph) storm Sunday morning to a 110 mph (175 kph) hurricane on the threshold of becoming a major hurricane Monday morning. 
Forecasters warned that could bring life-threatening storm surge catastrophic winds, flash flooding and landslides when it makes landfall. Eta is now the eighth Atlantic storm this season to hit the meteorologists’ definition for rapid intensification. Over the past couple decades, meteorologists have been increasingly worried about storms that just blow up in strength, like Eta. They created an official threshold for this dangerous powering up -- a storm gaining 35 mph (56 kph) in wind speed in just 24 hours. 
Earlier this year Hannah, Laura, Sally, Teddy, Gamma, Delta and Zeta all rapidly intensified. An eighth storm, Marco, just missed the mark. Laura and Delta tied or set records for rapid intensification. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration climate and hurricane scientist Jim Kossin studied the effect and found storms now are more likely to rapidly intensify than they did in the 1980s and “a lot of that has to do with human-caused climate change.” Eta is the 28th named Atlantic storm this season, tying the 2005 record for named storms. However, this is the first time the Greek letter Eta is being used as a storm name because after the 2005 season ended, meteorologists went back and determined there had been a storm that should have gotten a name but didn’t. 
Hurricane season still has a month to go, ending Nov 30th. And in 2005, Zeta formed toward the end of December. Hurricane Zeta, the 27th named storm in a very busy Atlantic season, closed in on the Caribbean coast of the eastern Yucatan Peninsula, whipping the resorts around Tulum with rain and wind before an expected landfall in the middle of the night. Zeta was predicted to lose some power while crossing the peninsula, before regaining hurricane strength in the Gulf of Mexico on Tuesday while heading for the central U.S. Gulf Coast and a likely landfall Wednesday night. A hurricane watch was posted from Morgan City, La., to the Mississippi-Alabama state line. 
In Playa del Carmen, between Tulum and Cancun, Mexican tourist Elsa Márquez held up her beach towel Monday so it flapped in the wind, rattling with the strong gusts Monday a few hours before Zeta's arrival. “This is our first experience (in a hurricane) and the truth is we are a little afraid because we don't know what will happen, but here we are,” said Márquez, who was visiting the resort from the north-central state of Queretaro. Another tourist, Mario Ortiz Rosas from the western state of Michoacan, looked at the rising waves, noting: “I didn’t plan for this, but it looks like it is going to get complicated.” Some boats that normally carry tourists in Cancun took refuge in a nearby lagoon channel, anchored among the mangroves to avoid the battering wind, waves and storm surge. Boat captain Francisco Sosa Rosado noted they had to perform the same maneuver barely three week ago, when the area was hit by Hurricane Delta, a Category 4 storm with top winds of 110 mph (175 kph). Quintana Roo state officials reported nearly 60,000 tourists in the state as of midweek. They said 71 shelters were readied for tourists or residents who might need them, though the governor said he hoped it would not be necessary to move guests out of their hotels. Zeta broke the record for the previous earliest 27th Atlantic named storm that formed Nov. 29, 2005. It's also the 11th hurricane of the season. An average season sees six hurricanes and 12 named storms. 
There have been so many storms this season that the hurricane center had to turn to the Greek alphabet after running out of assigned names. Zeta is the furthest into the Greek alphabet the Atlantic season has gone. There was also a Tropical Storm Zeta in 2005, but that year had 28 storms because meteorologists later went back and found they missed one, which then became an “unnamed named storm." 
Severe thunderstorms and flooding will drench the central United States through next week as windy, warm weather escalates fire danger in the West. As a front move over the middle Mississippi Valley, central and southern High Plains and Great Basin, the National Weather Service on Saturday forecast showers and thunderstorms in the regions through the weekend. The NWS Weather Prediction Center said threats from the thunderstorms include lightning, damaging wind gusts, hail and "a few tornadoes." Central and southern states have been pummeled by rounds of severe storms in recent weeks, with baseball-sized hail breaking windows in Texas and floodwaters forcing evacuations in Alabama. 
New Orleans experienced record flash flooding and a tornado over the last week. According to Accuweather, there were reports of strong wind and hail across Texas, New Mexico, Colorado and Kansas. The Midwest, Great Lakes, Northeast and Mid-Atlantic are all also forecast to see rain, with upper-level energy producing rain over the Upper Midwest and developing over the Great Lakes and Northeast on Saturday, and light rain expanding over parts of the Mid-Atlantic on Sunday. 
A tornado has touched down in South Carolina as severe storms continue to rip through the South, just hours after another tornado hit Atlanta and killed one person, according to reports. The National Weather Service issued a warning for Abbeville County around 2 p.m. that a tornado had touched down. Local schools held students inside while the tornado warning remained in effect. An initial warning also listed Greenwood, Laurens, Newberry, Union and Elbert counties, but most of those warnings expired by mid-afternoon. The heightened activity has put states across the South on alert as forecasts call for tornado activity over the next few days, with Tuesday a particularly active day for Louisiana, Georgia and Alabama. 
Several counties in Atlanta observed tornado warnings until late morning, at which point all warnings expired. One tornado ripped through Atlanta, with at least one person dead in nearby Douglasville, according to WSB-TV. 
Two tornadoes ripped through China's central city of Wuhan and a town in the eastern province of Jiangsu, killing at least 12 people and injuring hundreds while destroying homes and property, the official Xinhua news agency said on Saturday. 
Eight people were reported dead in Wuhan, in Hubei province, with 280 injured after Friday's tornado ripped through the district of Caidian at 8:39 p.m. local time, the agency said. The tornado toppled 27 houses and damaged 130 more, as well as two tower cranes and row upon row of sheds at construction sites, it added. "I've grown up in Wuhan and I've never seen anything like it," one resident of the city posted on China's Weibo app. "There's been so much extreme weather recently." Another tornado struck the town of Shengze, in the Suzhou area of tornado-prone Jiangsu province, killing four people and injuring 149, Xinhua said. Fire officials said the winds damaged electricity facilities and toppled several factory buildings. Tornadoes often hit Jiangsu in the late spring and early summer. China's commercial hub of Shanghai, around 62 miles from Suzhou, was also hit by powerful thunderstorms, prompting weather officials to declare an alert. More heavy storms were expected in Shanghai and other parts of the Yangtze river delta region later on Saturday, the state weather forecaster said. 
China faces more extreme weather as a result of climate change, Jia Xiaolong, an official of the forecaster, told reporters in late April, adding that the risk of disasters such as heat waves and floods was expected to rise in the coming years. Weather authorities have issued fresh storm warnings for parts of Georgia, just one day after tornadoes across Mississippi on Sunday left trails of devastation, uprooting trees and destroying homes in a brief but powerful fury. The National Weather Service issued new storm warnings Monday for multiple Georgia counties, with a tornado warning in effect throughout the morning for Fulton and Dekalb counties. 
There were reports of a tornado approaching downtown Atlanta. The weather conditions could continue into Tuesday and throughout the week. The storms started Sunday afternoon in Mississippi and lasted well into the night, with "tornado emergency" warnings issued in many parts of the state. The National Weather Service in Memphis tweeted photos of downed trees and power lines. Businesses and homes in the area sustained damage, but there have not yet been any reports of injuries. "Light poles have been snapped off. Trees in a few homes. Trees on vehicles. Damage to several businesses. Fortunately, we have had no reports at this time of injuries," Pollan posted on Facebook, asking people to stay off the roads. "Emergency personnel are working feverishly to open the roads as quickly as possible." The damage was more severe for some residents: Vickie Savell’s new mobile home was completely destroyed. She moved into it just eight days ago, but the tornado lifted it off its foundation and threw it some 25 feet. 
Forecasts have called for more storms across Mississippi in the coming days as well as in parts of Louisiana, Alabama and Georgia. Tuesday’s storms could see winds of up to 70 mph and hail the size of golf balls. A "potentially significant" tornado was confirmed on the ground and moving across the city of Tupelo, Mississippi, about 115 miles southeast of Memphis, Tennessee, on Sunday evening. Calhoun County Sheriff Greg Pollan told Tupelo's WTVA, that the storm caused damage to light poles, trees, vehicles, and several businesses. He asked residents to stay off the roads as emergency personnel worked to clear debris. 
Powerful Hurricane Iota made landfall on Nicaragua’s Caribbean coast late Monday, threatening catastrophic damage to the same part of Central America already battered by equally strong Hurricane Eta less than two weeks ago. Iota had intensified into an extremely dangerous Category 5 storm early in the day, but the U.S. National Hurricane Center said it weakened slightly to Category 4, with maximum sustained winds of 155 mph (250 kph). Its center made landfall about 30 miles (45 kilometers) south of the Nicaraguan city of Puerto Cabezas, also known as Bilwi. Iota already had been hitting the Caribbean coasts of Nicaragua and Honduras with torrential rains and strong winds. Iota came ashore just 15 miles (25 kilometers) south of where Hurricane Eta made landfall Nov. 3, also as a Category 4 storm. Eta’s torrential rains saturated the soil in the region, leaving it prone to new landslides and floods, and that the storm surge could reach 15 to 20 feet (4.5 to 6 meters) above normal tides. In Bilwi, business owner Adan Artola Schultz braced himself in the doorway of his house as strong gusts of wind and rain drover water in torrents down the street. He watched in amazement as wind ripped away the metal roof structure from a substantial two-story home and blew it away like paper. “The situation doesn’t look good at all,” Wriedt said earlier in the day. “We woke up without electricity, with rain and the surf is getting really high.” Wriedt, who works for a small-scale fishing organization called Piquinera, said the roof of her house was blown off in Eta less than two weeks ago. “We repaired it as best we could. Now I think the wind will take it again because they say (Iota) is even stronger,” she said, the sound of hammering echoing around her as neighbors boarded windows and reinforced roofs. During Eta, the surf came up to just behind her house, where she lives with eight other members of her family. “Today I’m afraid again about losing my house and I’m frightened for all of us who live in this neighborhood,” she said. Wriedt said some neighbors went to stay with relatives elsewhere, but most have stayed. “We’re almost all here,” she said. “Neither the army nor the government came to move us.” 
Nicaragua emergency response project manager for Catholic Relief Services, had just visited Bilwi and smaller coastal communities Friday. Nicaraguan Vice-President Rosario Murillo, who is also the first lady, said that the government had done everything necessary to protect lives, including the evacuation of thousands. She added that Taiwan had donated 800 tons of rice to help those affected by the storms. Limborth Bucardo, of the Miskito Indigenous ethnic group, said many people had moved to churches in Bilwi. He rode out Eta with his wife and two children at home, but this time decided to move in with relatives in a safer neighborhood. “We hadn’t finished repairing our houses and settling in when another hurricane comes,” Bucardo said. “The shelters in Bilwi are already full, packed with people from (surrounding) communities.” Iota is the record 30th named storm of this year’s extraordinarily busy Atlantic hurricane season. It’s also the ninth storm to rapidly intensify this season, a dangerous phenomenon that is happening increasingly more often. Such activity has focused attention on climate change, which scientists say is causing wetter, stronger and more destructive storms. Iota is stronger, based on central pressure, than 2005’s Hurricane Katrina and is the first storm with a Greek alphabet name to hit Category 5, Colorado State University hurricane researcher Phil Klotzbach said. It also sets the record for the latest Category 5 hurricane on record, beating the record set by the Nov. 8, 1932, Cuba Hurricane. 
Eta had hit Nicaragua as a Category 4 hurricane, killing more than 130 people as torrential rains caused flash floods and mudslides in parts of Central America and Mexico. Then it meandered across Cuba, the Florida Keys and around the Gulf of Mexico before slogging ashore again near Cedar Key, Florida, and dashing across Florida and the Carolinas. Iota was forecast to drop 10 to 20 inches (250-500 millimeters) of rain in northern Nicaragua, Honduras, Guatemala and southern Belize, with as much as 30 inches (750 millimeters) in isolated spots. Costa Rica and Panama could also experience heavy rain and possible flooding, the hurricane center said. The prospect of more rain was raising the anxiety of those still homeless after Eta. Eta was this year’s 28th named storm, tying the 2005 record. Over the past couple of decades, meteorologists have been more worried about storms like Iota that power up much faster than normal. They created an official threshold for this rapid intensification, a storm gaining 35 mph (56 kph) in wind speed in just 24 hours. Iota doubled it. Earlier this year, Hannah, Laura, Sally, Teddy, Gamma, Delta, Zeta and Iota all rapidly intensified. Laura and Delta tied or set records for rapid intensification. The official end of the hurricane season is Nov 30th. Honduras is one of the countries in Central America to be hit not by one but two hurricanes this month. 
Eta arrived in Nicaragua on 3 November as a category four hurricane and ripped through Honduras and Guatemala on its path north. Less than two weeks later, Iota - also a category four hurricane - made landfall just 15 miles (24km) south of where Eta had hit. 
The torrential rain brought by the almost back-to-back hurricanes caused deadly landslides, flash flooding and destruction in large areas of Central America. 
More than 200 people died across the region, 94 of them in Honduras, according to official figures. Photojournalist Encarni Pindado travelled to Honduras' second city and its industrial hub, San Pedro Sula, to survey the damage and speak to some of the three million Hondurans affected by the storms. Susan Jesenia Aguilar is eight months pregnant. The twenty-three-year-old, her partner and their baby had to flee their home due to the flooding caused by Hurricane Eta. She has epilepsy and has not been able to get hold of the medication she needs since the floods. The family have been living in a makeshift tent on the pavement by the side of a highway in San Pedro Sula for more than two weeks. She says both she and her baby have developed a cold with a cough, temperature and headaches. When the waters rose quickly, he had to abandon his home for his own safety. Wading through strong currents in the floodwaters, he was eventually rescued by the Honduran Red Cross. The Red Cross, the army, the fire service and international rescue organizations have all been helping bring people to safety. Seventy-year-old Roberto Mallorca and his wife Oneida Pérez, 62, lost everything when Hurricane Iota hit: the sheep and chicken that they keep and all their belongings. Mr Mallorca had a stroke some months back. His disability meant that he and his family were not able to leave their home for one of the shelters before Iota hit. When the waters rose, he, his wife, their daughter and two grandchildren scrambled to higher ground where they were trapped for almost 24 hours until locals aided by the Red Cross came to their rescue. Before the hurricanes hit, Digno Osorto worked transporting sand to construction sites on his horse-drawn cart. On average he earned $13.35 (£10) a week, which he says was not enough to feed his family. His horse-drawn cart turned out to be a lifesaver when the floodwaters rose. He packed his entire family on the cart and got them to safety. But all of his belongings were lost in the floods. For many in Honduras, the impact caused by the storms will push them from poverty into extreme poverty. 
Official figures suggest more than 150,000 people have been left homeless due to the damage caused by the two storms. Entire families are camping out wherever they can, even if it means sleeping rough by the side of a motorway. Many are developing health problems ranging from simple colds to skin rashes and gastrointestinal problems. Mosquito-borne dengue and Covid are also on the rise. According to the health ministry in Cortés region, some people are refusing to be tested for Covid for fear of being stigmatized if they test positive and being pushed out of the shelters where they have sought refuge. 
More than 15,000 people sought refuge in shelters in the city of San Pedro Sula alone. This school here (below) houses more than 475 people. It receives donations of food, bedding, clothes and medicines, but with a quarter of the city affected, there is not enough to go around. The combination of the post-hurricane clean-up, reconstruction and the continuing health emergency due to Covid-19 far exceeds the capacity and the budget of the government. 
Porfirio Castellanos, 63, is one of the hundreds of people who sought refuge in the school in the Capsules neighborhood of San Pedro Sula. He and his family, like so many others, have lost everything to the floods. He says that he feels people like him were left abandoned. "During Hurricane Mitch (in 1998), the authorities helped people salvage some of their possessions by putting them on to lorries and transporting them to shelters before the city got flooded." He says that no such help was on hand during Hurricane Eta. 
El Valle de Sula is the economic powerhouse of Honduras but after having been flooded twice in the space of two weeks, the government has yet to tally up the economic loss. Countrywide, almost 300 roads were damaged, 48 bridges destroyed and 32 others were damaged by the river flood, according to Honduras' civil protection officials. Hurricane Delta made landfall near Creole, Louisiana at 6pm local time on Friday, as a category 2 hurricane – with estimated sustained winds of 100mph. This is the 10th named storm this season to make landfall in the USA, which is a new record. Delta is also the first Greek alphabet named hurricane on record to make landfall in continental USA. 
Tropical Storm Sally has left more than half a million Americans without power as its torrential rains and storm surges lashed the US Gulf coast. Sally weakened after it made landfall as a Category 2 hurricane on Wednesday, but the slow-moving storm continues to batter Florida and Alabama. 
One person was killed and hundreds were rescued from flooded areas. Pensacola, in Florida, was badly hit, with a loose barge bringing down part of the Bay Bridge. "Catastrophic and life-threatening flooding continues over portions of the Florida Panhandle and southern Alabama," the National Hurricane Center (NHC) said. The storm has brought "four months of rain in four hours" to the city, Pensacola fire chief Ginny Cranor told CNN. 
One person died and another was missing in the town of Orange Beach, Alabama, the mayor said without giving further details. Sally made landfall at Gulf Shores, Alabama, at 04:45 local time on Wednesday, with maximum wind speeds of 105mph (169 km/h). According to the NHC, Category 2 hurricanes have sustained winds of 96 to 110 mph. The NHC says a Category 2 storm's "extremely dangerous winds" usually cause damage to homes and shallowly rooted trees. The storm later become a tropical depression with winds decreasing to 35mph, but it has been the torrents of rainfall and high storm surges that have caused most damage. As the storm moved north from the coast, some 550,000 residents in affected areas were left in the dark on Wednesday night, according to local reports. 
Sally is one of several storms in the Atlantic Ocean, with officials running out of letters to name the hurricanes as they near the end of their annual alphabetic list. A newly formed hurricane is closing in on the US Gulf Coast, threatening several southern US states including Florida, Mississippi and Alabama. Hurricane Sally made slow progress over the Gulf Coast early Tuesday, crawling onward at 2mph (3km/h), after growing to a category two storm the day before. It is expected to intensify before making landfall early on Wednesday. 
The hurricane will bring up to 2ft (61cm) of rain and 85mph (135km/h) winds to some areas, officials say. The National Hurricane Center (NHC) said on Tuesday morning that Sally could bring "historic flooding" and that "extreme life-threatening flash flooding" is likely. The storm is already drenching parts of the US Gulf Coast as hurricane conditions are expected along the Mississippi and Alabama coastlines and north-western Florida. This year's hurricane season has been particularly active. For only the second time in recorded history, there are five tropical storms churning in the Atlantic basin at the same time. The NHC on Tuesday said it was still too early to determine where Hurricane Sally's center will move onshore and urged caution throughout the storm's potential path. "Dangerous storm surge, rainfall and wind hazards will extend well away from the center," the agency said. 
A hurricane warning remains in effect from the mouth of the Pearl River on the Louisiana-Mississippi border, stretching 200 miles (322 km) eastward to Navarre, in north Florida. Alabama and Mississippi each declared states of emergency in anticipation of the hurricane, which at 12:00 GMT on Tuesday was located 65 miles east of the mouth of the Mississippi River, plodding along northwest with maximum sustained winds of 85 mph. "Sally is still expected to be a dangerous hurricane when it moves onshore along the north-central Gulf coast," the NHC said. The NHC said the storm had shifted and is likely to pass over the coast of south-eastern Louisiana today before making landfall, but could still cause storm surges that could trigger major floods. "Additional strengthening is forecast tonight and early Tuesday and Sally is expected to be a dangerous hurricane when it moves onshore," the NHC warned. In New Orleans, residents who live outside the city's levee protection system have been ordered to evacuate their homes. 
As of Monday, almost 80,000 homes in Louisiana were without power as a result of Hurricane Laura, which hit three weeks earlier. In addition to Sally, there are four other tropical cyclones - Paulette, Rene, Teddy and Vicky - swirling in the Atlantic Ocean basin. If only one more storm is officially named - Wilfred has already been chosen - meteorologists will begin naming new storms after the Greek alphabet. 
Hurricane Sally has brought "historic and catastrophic flooding" to the southern US after making landfall. The storm's sluggish speed, roughly 5mph (7km/h), increases its capacity for destruction, pummeling coastal states with heavy rain. 
The National Hurricane Center (NHC) reported flooding from Tallahassee, Florida to Mobile Bay in Alabama. It also warned of a "life-threatening" storm surge and river flooding inland as far as Georgia. Hurricane Sally is one of several storms in the Atlantic Ocean, with officials running out of letters to name the hurricanes as they near the end of their annual alphabetic list. The center has downgraded the storm from a Category 2 hurricane to a Category 1, but cautioned that the threat from heavy rain and "catastrophic" flooding remained. A hurricane advisory is currently in place from the Alabama and Mississippi border to northwestern Florida. The hurricane has winds of 80mph (130km/h) and is moving north-northeast at 5mph (7km/h), up from 3mph (5km/h) earlier on Wednesday. Sally's pace may be linked to climate change, according to experts. A 2018 study in Nature magazine found that the speed at which hurricanes and tropical storms move over an area had decreased by 10% between 1949 and 2016, a drop that was linked to an increase in total rainfall. Rain appeared to fall sideways in Alabama, which led to submerged roads as the storm inched ashore. Other areas along the coast were also affected, with beaches and highways swamped in Mississippi and low-lying properties in Louisiana covered by the rising waters. 
In Pensacola, Florida, Escambia County Sheriff David Morgan told US media that a section of Three Mile Bridge is missing as a result of the storm, which has turned streets into choppy rivers. It is the largest physical damage so far from Hurricane Sally. Meanwhile, Tim Parker, manager of Gulf Coast Gator Ranch & Tours, told local TV station KITV that he was anxious about an initial predicted storm surge of up to 9ft (2.7m) in his home of Moss Point, Mississippi. He feared a repeat of Hurricane Katrina's storm surge in 2005, in which roughly 250 alligators escaped their enclosures. However, as surge predictions have dropped, he has felt some relief. "Now they're talking about maybe two to four feet, which won't be bad here," Mr Parker told KITV. "My parking lot might go under water. Our office might partially go under water, but it's not going to be too bad." 
Hurricane Sally arrives just weeks after Hurricane Laura killed at least six people in the state of Louisiana. Winds of up to 150mph (240km/h) caused severe damage, with power cuts to more than half a million homes and a chemical fire from an industrial plant. But the feared 20ft (6m) storm surge was avoided as the hurricane, the state's biggest, tracked further east.