The Environment Agency previously warned of “exceptionally high river levels” following days of heavy rainfall in the wake of Storm Christoph, with hundreds of properties across the country flooded. London was gripped by bitterly cold conditions on New Year’s Eve as temperatures in the north sank to a low of minus 7.5C on the final day of the year. 
The mercury in the capital was set to stay at or below 3C on Thursday afternoon - with a bitingly cold wind ensuring the ‘feel like temperature’ stays at or below zero, according to the Met Office. But hopes of some snow in London at the dawn of the New Year seemed slim, with dry conditions forecast over the next couple of days.  
Temperatures in London are expected to reach a ‘high’ of 3C on Friday, January 1, and four or five degrees over the weekend. The final day of 2020 brought bitterly cold conditions for much of the UK and more snow - with a low of minus 7.5C (18.5F) recorded in Topcliffe, near Thirsk in North Yorkshire. 
Met Office yellow warnings for snow and ice in parts of Northern Ireland, most of Scotland and parts of North Wales and northern England remained in place overnight, while sub-zero temperatures caused icy early-morning conditions along much of the south coast of England. 
North Wales Police advised motorists to avoid all non-essential journeys as officers dealt with several collisions on the A55 amid dangerous conditions caused by snow and ice. 
Many areas in the North West of England woke up to thick mist and a blanketing of snow after temperatures plunged to well below zero. A yellow weather warning for snow and ice has been issued for the region by the Met Office, with snow still falling and more forecast. 
Parts of Merseyside were already covered in snow, which fell in previous days but has yet to melt as temperatures stayed below freezing. North West Motorway Police urged people to drive with care following a number of accidents, while Transport for Greater Manchester also warned people to expect delays and leave extra time for journeys if they are venturing out. Meanwhile, the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) urged walkers to be prepared for the conditions after two groups had to be rescued from the Mourne Mountains in County Down on Wednesday. The snow and ice weather warning remain in force for much of northern England as well as large parts of Scotland until 2pm on Thursday, while the separate snow and ice warning for northern Scotland and Northern Ireland expires at 11am. 
An ice warning covering the southern tip of England was in until 11am, with the possibility of rapidly freezing surfaces after downpours. Met Office forecaster Clare Nasir said: "New Year's Eve will bear with it again the risk of rain, sleet and snow, another feature sliding down the country from northern Scotland. Britain braced for Storm Egon ahead of the weekend, with evacuations from its eastern coastal towns over fears of a storm surge. Around 100 flood alerts were issued, 11 of them severe. 
Dozens of flights were cancelled at London’s Heathrow airport. However, the UK was largely spared from the predicted snow. Some took to Twitter to express their disappointment over the weather. Across the Channel, violent storms left 330,000 homes in France without power overnight on Friday. More than 100 passengers on a Thalys from Brussels to Paris were stuck for ten hours after their train lost power. 
Belgium’s Civil Protection agency received a request from the government and firemen of Belgium’s western region, West Flanders, to build protective barriers to protect several municipalities that could be threatened by major floods on Thursday. While Northern Europe is used to subzero temperatures, the polar conditions surprised residents of Dubrovnik in Croatia, with the Old Town blanketed in snow for the first time in eight years. While some locals reveled in the arctic scenes, the cold means misery for thousands of refugees in Greece and Serbia. Picture postcard images of Venice in the snow stand in stark contrast to recent scenes of migrants grappling with temperatures below zero in makeshift camps. The UN’s refugee agency is calling on governments to do more, after it was reported five people had already died from the harsh conditions. 
Icy conditions and powerful winds are causing havoc in the US, from multi-car pileups in Syracuse, New York, to fallen trees and power lines in South Carolina. At least one person has been killed after a car was crushed by a large tree. 
The storms causing the chaos moved eastwards after triggering a string of tornadoes in the Midwest, including Illinois, on Tuesday. Three people are reported to have died, with hundreds of homes damaged or destroyed. Large parts of the US are bracing for a deep freeze that is forecast to plunge major cities into chaos. 
North-eastern states of New York and New Jersey have already declared states of emergency as winter storm Stella swept in. Some 50 million people along the Eastern Seaboard are under blizzard warnings with up to 60 cm of snow forecast by early Wednesday. New York Mayor Bill de Blasio issued his own warning: “Stay off the streets, for your own good, for your own safety, but also to help the sanitation department to keep the streets clear. If you must go out, do so for as limited a time period as possible.” Schools have been closed and thousands of flights have been cancelled affecting travel plans including those of German Chancellor Angela Merkel. She had been due to meet President Donald Trump in Washington today but has postponed her trip until Friday. 
It is a whiteout in New York's iconic Times Square, which has been hit by the winter storm that has brought death and destruction to the east coast of the United States. Mayor Bill de Blasio has declared a winter weather emergency for the city where locals and tourists alike are making the best of the big freeze. "This is heavy. It's heavy snow. And when it's wet it's like you can't hardly move it," said Morris Withers, as he shoveled snow in Times Square. "I think it is a great novelty. I don't know if I would like it seasonally. I'm pretty comfortable with the warmth in Australia," said visitor from Down Under, Ebony Sugars. 
Thousands of flights have been cancelled and delayed. The whiteout conditions saw planes grounded temporarily at New York City's two main airports. And many hoping to fly from Newark airport in New Jersey were disappointed. "Our flight was cancelled and we never got any information that it was being cancelled and now we're delayed and we're not sure if we're going to be flying out of here anytime soon," said Hazel Blackmon, who should have been flying to Georgia. 
The big freeze continues to wreak havoc on the East Coast of the United States, with wind chills forecast to fall as low as minus 40 degrees Celsius in places. The storm that delivered the wintry deluge has battered coastal communities in Massachusetts. In the beach town of Revere, near Boston, frozen floodwaters left an entire street full of parked cars trapped in ice, in images captured on video posted to social media. Travelling by air hasn't been easy either. 
On Friday, more than 1,300 US flights had been cancelled by the afternoon, most of them at the New York area's three major airports and Boston Logan International. The weather has been blamed for at least 18 deaths in the past few days and temperatures are set to plunge further, with the cold snap for Americans far from over. The storm that swept in on Thursday with gusts of more than 113 km per hour, dumped 56 centimeters of snow in parts of Maine and 43 centimeters in parts of Massachusetts, before ending on Friday, the National Weather Service said. It was powered by a rapid drop in barometric pressure that some weather forecasters called a bombogenesis, or a "bomb cyclone". Now though the bitter cold remains, with forecasts of record lows to come. 
Cities from Houston to Boston have stepped up efforts to bring the homeless to shelters. Authorities said that three homeless people in Texas died from exposure to the cold. In the depth of the northern winter many migrants are making perilous trans-alpine journeys to get into Europe on foot. More and more are being discovered on freezing back roads in the dead of night, or have to be rescued when they get into difficulties. 
Mountain guides say if measures are not taken soon, lives will be lost. Volunteers are out helping people, but they have to careful not to attract attention from the police. Many migrants are being picked up making their way into France across the Italian border, but for some it is a journey that ends badly, like Mamadou Bam from Mali. The recent heavy snows have made the journey even more dangerous. Mamadou needed to have both his feet amputated after he got caught on the Echelle Pass in March 2016, more than a mile above sea level. He is now getting the medical attention he needs, but the price he has paid to enter Europe is very high. "We got there, we were blocked in the snow, there was too much. We couldn’t go anywhere, back or forward. I tried to stand up, I fell, I tried to stand up and fell. My feet were frozen up until the knee, I couldn't feel anything. I didn't know snow burns," he says. Now Mamadou cannot stay standing longer than two hours, yet he considers himself one of the lucky ones. At least he is not rotting in some camp in Greece or Italy. Local man Jean-Paul Borel has already been arrested for helping refugees cross over. Helping illegal migrants is an offence in France. "The migrants who have to pass this way are taking more and more risks. If things continue like this, I think there will be deaths this winter." So beautiful yet so deadly, the Alps are a formidable barrier. It’s being described as a blizzard of epic proportions. 
Snowstorm Jonas is sweeping across the east coast of the United States, carrying with its power cuts, an estimated one billion dollars’ worth of damage and the threat that whole cities could grind to a halt. The National Weather Service warned of “life-threatening” conditions. “Strong winds will combine with heavy snow to produce life-threatening blizzard conditions across portions of the Mid-Atlantic Friday night and Saturday,” it posted in an online forecast. 
Approximately one in four Americans have been affected by the blizzard, storms or freezing rain warnings since it started on Friday. The streets of the capital are blanketed in snow, while in New York, Mayor Bill de Blasio warned: “Starting at 8am tomorrow morning (Saturday, January 23), I’ll be declaring a local winter weather emergency for New York City and that will stay in effect through the day Saturday, until the end of Saturday, midnight Saturday, going into Sunday. “Stay off the roads. It’s as simple as that.” 
At least nine people have died in storm-related road accidents since the blizzard began. In Chicago a plane skidded partially off a runway at O’Hare International Airport. No one was injured. Across Friday and Saturday (January 22-23), more than 6,000 flights were cancelled, leaving some people stranded. “I came in yesterday for some meetings in Chicago and got stuck here last night, slept in a hotel, came today and my flight is cancelled again. States of emergency have been declared across six states and in parts of others. The Big Apple joins Washington and other cities in being brought to a standstill by Snowstorm Jonas. 
Eleven states have declared states of emergency, with between half a meter and 1.20 meters of snow expected in some areas, meteorologists say. Weather-related car crashed have killed at least 13 people in Arkansas, North Carolina, Kentucky, Ohio, Tennessee and Virginia, Reuters news agency reports. One person was killed in Maryland, three others in New York while shoveling snow and two people in Virginia died of hypothermia, officials said. Euronews’ correspondent in Washington, Stefan Grobe, sent this report from the capital: “So, I can tell you that this is not a day you want to spend outside, because it’s snowing very heavily. There are very, very strong winds. Snow is piling up for 24 hours and we are expecting more snow for at least 12 more hours. So, it’s pretty uncomfortable if you have to be outside. I just got back from walking outside in my neighborhood. I live in the Capitol Hill east neighborhood of Washington. It normally takes me 20-25 minutes on foot to go to the capital. Now, today we were out and after an hour we decided to return because the weather was so bad and walking through the snow was so bad and we were still five or six blocks away from the Capitol.” 
A big freeze is gripping parts of Europe at the start of 2017. A severe cold warning has been issued in Finland where temperatures on Friday could plunge to -40C in the far north. Travel has been affected by the bitter cold with railway tracks hit by frost damage. Heavy snowfall has also hit Bosnia where bone-chilling temperatures of between -11C and -26C are expected in a cold snap set to last for at least five days. There is no escape in Italy with a warning of extreme weather for much of the country. Snow has already fallen in the central region hit by earthquakes last year. 
The initial tremor in August killed some 300 people, most of them in the town of Amatrice. A storm surge meanwhile has caused major damage to northeast Germany. Cars were swept away and streets inundated as Storm Axel hit towns, cities and beach resorts, causing what is said to be the worst flooding to the country’s Baltic coast in a decade. The northern states of Schleswig-Holstein and Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania were among the worst hit, with water levels rising by almost 2 meters in some areas after heavy rainfall. Residents were well prepared with sandbags and levels began to subside on Thursday. 
Temperatures in Berlin are expected to plunge to -10 degrees Centigrade on Saturday. A dangerous blend of ice, snow and glaring sunshine has reportedly caused several accidents along a crowded stretch of motorway in Pennsylvania. As many as one hundred vehicles, including several overturned cars and a jackknifed truck, were involved in the pile-ups, according to NBC. It is believed the accident occurred when three cars hit the back-end of a large vehicle that was clearing snow on the road. Local media said several motorists were hospitalized during the incident but no fatalities were reported. Aerial footage shows the chain-reaction of accidents on February 14 that left hundreds of cars stuck on the road in freezing conditions. 
A huge snow storm in the north-east of the US has caused whole cities to grind to a standstill. Elsewhere in the country at least 13 people were killed in icy storms that gripped the south-eastern states. 
Heavy snow has prompted a state of emergency in western New York as temperatures in all 50 US states dipped to freezing or below. Winter has come early in most parts including Hawaii. New York’s snow fall was over a meter deep – hampering transport and threatening power lines. The storm is expected to last for several days. Even Florida is bracing itself for the big freeze. At least 10 people are confirmed dead in the monster blizzard that has struck western New York state and the city of Buffalo in particular. Cars disappeared in snowdrifts two meters deep in places. Skies are not expected to clear until Friday, and more snow is forecast until then. With people saying the storm is the worst in living memory, the authorities are pulling out all the stops. “This is I believe the largest deployment of its kind ever. Literally thousands of people from across the state coming into help and hundreds of pieces of equipment coming from as far away as Long Island,” said state Governor Andrew Cuomo. Schools are closed and sports games cancelled, and driving bans are in force on many roads. Such is the weight of snow there are fears for some structures. The thaw could bring problems of its own, as experts say there is a risk of flooding. Southern Italy is experiencing unusually wintry weather. 
In Rome, arctic-inspired winds brought temperatures as low as minus eight degrees Celsius. For the first time in almost 20 years, cities such as Palermo woke up under a white blanket. It even reached as far as Sardinia. Highway authorities said motorways across the country were in bad condition, blocked by snow and ice. 
A powerful storm is forecast to hit the area between Monday night and Tuesday morning (January 26-27) local time. Meteorologists predict between 60 cm and one metre of snow will be dumped across the region. Tens of millions of people have been urged to stay at home. More than 5,000 flights have been cancelled and schools are temporarily closed. Mayor of New York City Bill de Blasio warned people to be alert. “Everything we know so far makes it clear you can’t underestimate this storm. This is not a typical storm. It’s going to pack a real punch and we have to expect heavy accumulation in a very short period of time,” he said. “There is another crucial point: some storms come in in a measured manner. This is going to come in in a sudden spurt of activity.” De Blasio went on to announce the only transport that would be allowed on the roads after 11pm local time on Monday would be emergency vehicles. In preparation, locals started stocking up on food and supplies over the weekend. States of emergency have since been declared in New York and New Jersey. 
Strong winds and heavy snow almost a meter deep predicted to strike an area from New Jersey to Maine, affecting up to 20 percent of Americans. The Weather Prediction Center issued a storm summary message warning of “high impact winter storm expected to bring crippling snowfall amounts and life-threatening blizzard conditions”. New York, known as the city that never sleeps, is on virtual shutdown – as are other cities. Winds of up to 80 kilometers an hour are forecast. 
The New York governor issued a travel ban, forbidding the use of private cars in the area, and the authorities say the rule will be strictly enforced with fines of up to 300 dollars. “If you are in your car and you are on any road, town, village, city, it doesn’t matter, after 11 o’clock, you will technically be committing a crime,” New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said. “It could be a matter of life and death so caution is required.” The scenes in Times Square where snow ploughs were out at work, were not what some tourists expected. “Completely different. It’s like two different cities in one place,” said Steph Krueger, a visitor from Australia. “I agree with that. We got to see a lot yesterday. It was great going actually to Central Park and throw a few snowballs, go sledding at that sort of stuff, that was really good to see,” her friend Dean Vance said. 
The last time New York experienced such havoc was when Superstorm Sandy devastated the region in 2012. Then, stock exchanges were forced to close; this time they said they hoped to open. Schools have closed until at least Wednesday. Boston is expected to bear the brunt of the storm. Nationally, at least 3,000 US flights have been cancelled, with Boston and New York the worst affected. Rail and bus passengers as well as fliers have also been stranded; entertainment and sports events have been cancelled. 
Parts of Niagara Falls have frozen over as large areas of the United States shiver in record-breaking low temperatures for this time of year. As Chicago recorded -22 Celsius, state schools, serving 396,000 students, cancelled classes on Thursday and many commuters were wrapped up so heavily that only their eyes could be seen. Battling a blaze at a building in Philadelphia, fire crews struggled as water from their hoses turned to ice. The bitter cold was headed east, meaning a frosty Friday morning commute was in store for East Coast residents from Boston down to Richmond, Virginia, according to National Weather Service meteorologist Bob Oravec. More records are expected to fall. RCMP say two people were found dead in the elements in the Acadian Peninsula this week during a large winter storm. A 90-year-old woman was discovered outside her home in Paquetville by someone plowing the snow in the early morning hours of Wednesday. “We aren’t sure why she was outside, but it could have been a medical issue as well. She was home but she was found on the deck outside,” said RCMP Sgt. André Pepin. As well, a 53-year-old man who had ventured out Monday night and was reported missing the next day was discovered Wednesday near his home in Bas-Caraquet. He was wearing snowshoes at the time and was deceased. Pepin says no foul play is suspected in the two deaths, so the role of the RCMP is assisting the coroner’s office at this point. Pepin points out the weather was particularly wintry on Tuesday, when an intense snowstorm hit the region beginning Monday. 
Russia’s northernmost city, Norilsk, has been waist-deep in snow for almost a week now, exposed to blizzards and gusts of strong wind reaching up to 27 meters per second. According to local media, in the past two months about 400 thousand tons of snow were removed from the Siberian city located 300 kilometers (186 miles) north of the Arctic Circle. Snow storms from Siberia blasted Britain and Ireland on Thursday with the worst weather since 1991, trapping several hundred motorists on roads in Scotland, closing thousands of schools, grounding planes and halting trains. 
With up to 90 cm of snow and temperatures as low as minus 10.3 Celsius in Scotland, Britain and Ireland issued their most severe red warnings which advise people to stay at home as travel is too dangerous. Dozens of people were trapped in their cars on the M80 motorway between Glasgow and Edinburgh, with several hundred having been stranded on the road overnight. Flights and trains were cancelled across both Britain and Ireland - with similar transport problems in continental Europe. More freezing snowy weather was forecast as Storm Emma approaches from Portugal and France, with warnings of treacherous weather across southern England and Ireland. Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar said people should remain indoors from 1600 GMT on Thursday until the storm, with winds forecast to reach 100 kph (60 mph), has passed. 
All flights will cease from Dublin airport by 1600 GMT and the two carriers that use the airport, Aer Lingus and Ryanair, said they do not plan to fly from the airport at all on Friday. Trains and planes were cancelled across Britain and Ireland. Emergency services also struggled on what many consider to be the first day of the Northern Hemisphere's Spring. Wholesale gas prices soared to their highest in at least 10 years on Thursday and the British power network regular, the National Grid, warned of a deficit in the market and sought to buy gas from market players to unblock bottlenecks. The cold spell, dubbed the "the Beast from the East", has been caused by a jump in temperatures high over the Arctic which has weakened the jet stream that brings warm air in from the Atlantic to Ireland and Britain. 
In Switzerland, Geneva airport closed for several hours and dozens of flights were cancelled. Snow also disrupted road and rail traffic. France had its share of snow too, even on the beaches of the Riviera coast in the southeast. The worst was in the south where hundreds of cars and trucks were stranded on the A9 motorway, a strip that links southern France and Spain. The airport in Montpelier was closed for a period overnight but partially reopened on Thursday. Upwards of 15,000 homes along the Mediterranean were without power on Thursday morning, power network company Enedis said. It also snowed across much of northern Italy overnight, bringing fresh disruption to a rail network already hard hit by heavy snow across the south at the start of the week. Schools in Florence were ordered to shut, while heavy goods vehicles were banned from the roads in the north. In the Netherlands, strong winds caused problems. 
At Amsterdam's Schiphol airport, only two of the six landing strips could be used on Thursday morning. Authorities had to close sea barriers south of Rotterdam to protect shipping. Srinagar: Breaking a 30-year record, Srinagar recorded its lowest minimum temperature on Saturday (January 30) night. Srinagar recorded a low of minus 8.8 degrees Celsius temperature, the lowest since 1991. As intense cold waves gripped the entire Kashmir Valley, temperatures were recorded below freezing point throughout the region. Deputy Director of the Meteorological Department, Srinagar said it was minus 8.8 degrees Celsius in Srinagar. It’s the lowest since 1991, he added. The minimum temperature has consistently remained far below normal this season. This January, it is the sixth time when mercury dipped below 7 degree and two times below 8 degree. 
On January 14, Srinagar recorded minus 8.4 derees Celsius. On 20 January 1991, Srinagar had witnessed the lowest temperature of minus 11.8 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature also remained below normal for all other parts of the Valley, MET said. As per the statement issued by MET, the mercury settled at minus 12.0 degree Celsius in Pahalgam while Gulmarg recorded minus 8.0 degrees Celsius. Other parts like Qazigund, recorded a low of minus 10.2°C while Kokernag recorded minus 12.4 degrees Celsius. However, the harsh 40 days winter period ended on Sunday. Kashmir witnessed two heavy spells of snowfall in this period and all 40 days temperatures remained below freezing point. Meanwhile, Met has predicted cloudy weather from February 1 morning. Deputy Director Met said, “A western disturbance is likely to cause isolated to scattered precipitation during 1-3rd February due to which temperatures may show slight rise.” Delhi recorded seven "cold wave" days in January, the maximum in the month since 2008, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to four degrees Celsius. 
A severe cold wave is when the minimum temperature is two degrees Celsius or less. "The number of cold wave days in January this year was the maximum since 2008, when 12 such days were recorded," Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting center, said. Only one "cold wave" day each was recorded in 2020 and 2019. The city had recorded six "cold wave" days in January 2013. Mr Srivastava said only one western disturbance affected the plains of northwest India this January, leading to more cloudless nights and therefore, more "cold wave" days. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation, warming the ground. 
The minimum temperature falls in the absence of a cloud cover. A cold wave swept the national capital on Sunday morning, with the minimum temperature dipping to 3.1 degrees Celsius. This is the fourth "cold wave" day in Delhi in a week. The minimum temperature settled at 2.1 degrees Celsius and 3.8 degrees Celsius in the national capital on Tuesday and Thursday respectively due to the cold and dry northwesterly winds barreling through the plains, the IMD said. The cold wave intensified in Kashmir on Friday as temperatures plunged in Srinagar. 
The capital of Jammu and Kashmir recorded a low of minus 7.7 degrees Celsius - plunging more than two degrees from minus 5.6 degrees the previous night, according to the weather bureau. The minimum temperatures in the rest of the Valley stayed mostly ten degrees below the freezing point. 
A fresh Western Disturbance is likely to affect the Western Himalayan region from January 31 and under its influence scattered rain or snowfall is likely during 1st to 3rd February, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) tweeted. Biting cold conditions intensified in parts of Rajasthan on Tuesday, with Mount Abu being recorded as the coldest place in the state at minus 4.2 degrees Celsius, even as there was some respite in Kashmir where most places witnessed an increase in the minimum temperature, officials said. Sikar recorded minimum temperatures of 0.5 degrees Celsius and 1.6 degrees Celsius, respectively. Large swathes of North America have been gripped by cold and heavy snowfall, causing loss of life, major traffic chaos and power outages for millions of people. 
The prolonged freeze, which saw many new record cold maximum and minimum temperatures, was caused by an Arctic blast of air moving down from Canada all the way into Texas. More than 100 million people over 1.6 million km² were under winter storm warnings, according to the US National Weather Service. Some 73% of the Continental USA was covered in snow as of midnight February 16, the greatest extent on record in the database, which dates back to 2003. Some parts of Texas were colder than Alaska. According to news reports, Dallas reached a low of 4°F (-16°C) on February 15, the coldest temperature the city has seen since 1989. Temperatures near 60°F (15.6°C) are more typical this time of year. 
The temperature at Houston’s Intercontinental Airport was 17°F (-8°C). A reported 4 million people in Texas were without power. Satellite data published by NASA showed the extent of the power outages as the state was plunged into darkness. The US National Weather Service said that abnormally cold temperatures would continue until 19 February.  “Record cold daily maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to transpire in the South-Central U.S. through Saturday morning. The Plains and Mississippi Valley can expect daily temperature anomalies ranging between 20 and 30 below normal,” it said. 
The Russian Federation and Northern parts of Europe were hit by very cold weather in mid-February, alongside a series of Atlantic storms. Southern Europe and the Mediterranean saw major snowstorms, including in Spain. Greece was blanketed by snow in the week of 15 February and snow added to the humanitarian woes of populations in Syria and Yemen. The United Kingdom saw its coldest February night since 1955, with the temperature in Braemar, Aberdeenshire fell to minus 23.0 °C on 10 February, according to the UK’s Met Office. 
In Scandinavia, Latvia saw an average air temperature in winter 2020/2021 of -3,7 °C, the coldest since 2012/2013, and also with the thickest snow cover since then. In the first ten days of February the average air temperature in Latvia was -8.8 °C, which is 5.0 °C below the decade norm (1981-2010 norm). In Germany, in the week beginning 8 February, the temperature fell below -20°C at many observing stations, breaking monthly records, whilst even low-lying areas received heavy snow, according to the Deutsche Wetterdienst. 
Canals in the Netherlands froze over an increasingly rare event. This was followed by unusually mild weather in central Europe. February’s extreme weather was triggered by large scale and interconnected atmospheric circulation patterns and a recent meteorological event called a Sudden Stratospheric Warming Event high up in the Stratosphere, about 30 km over the North Pole. 
The stratospheric warming event led to a weakening of the polar vortex, which is an area of low pressure and cold air surrounding the Earth’s North and South poles, with swirling westerly jet stream winds circulating around them. Typically, those winds are strong enough to keep the coldest air in the Arctic during the winter. The weakening allowed the cold air to spill out into the mid-latitudes, including the USA, and for the warmer air to enter the Arctic. An index called the Arctic Oscillation measures the extent to which polar air is either held back in the Arctic or meanders southwards.
 A positive Arctic Oscillation indicates cold air is trapped in the Arctic; and a negative one means that cold air crashes south as the jet stream weakens. Repeated disruptions of the polar vortex resulted in a strongly negative Arctic oscillation since early December 2020. This translated into a warm Arctic, cold continent pattern, with cold waves in Europe, as well as episodes of heavy precipitation particularly over southern Europe and the Mediterranean rim countries, and Atlantic storms. The cold spell is unusual but not exceptional. And in contrast to North America, other parts of the globe have been unusually warm. Following the cold spell, many parts of central Europe became unseasonably warm. In general, cold waves are becoming more infrequent as a result of climate change and there has been a decline in new cold temperature records as a result of global warming. But frigid temperatures and snow will continue to be part of our typical weather patterns in the northern hemisphere winter. In its Fifth Assessment Report, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said it is "virtually certain that there will be more frequent hot and fewer cold temperature extremes over most land areas on daily and seasonal timescales as global mean temperatures increase. It is very likely that heat waves will occur with a higher frequency and duration. Occasional cold winter extremes will continue to occur." Research is still ongoing on the attribution of extreme temperatures (cold and warm events) observed occasionally in the northern hemisphere winter season. With the Arctic heating more than twice as fast as the global average, there is special interest in is how warming Arctic air masses and declining sea ice are affecting ocean circulation and the jet stream, thus impacting weather in mid-latitudes. Sydney woke up to near-freezing temperatures on Sunday as south-east Australia shivered through an early cold snap, bringing snow falls one month out from the start of the ski season. The official temperature at Observatory Hill did not dip below 7.8C on Sunday morning, but clear skies and a chilly wind meant the air felt “pretty close to zero” at 5.30am, the Bureau of Meteorology’s Helen Kirkup said. Richmond was the coldest place in greater Sydney, reaching a low of 0.2C overnight. Further inland, the weather station at Griffith airport recorded its coldest night for early May in 47 years, with a low of -1.8C, while Cobar recorded 1.5C, its coldest for early May since 1987. Canberra was even colder, recording an overnight low of -5.4C, but did not set any records. 
Perisher shivered through its coldest May night since local records began 12 years ago, reaching a low of -9.4C. The freezing temperatures were accompanied by clear skies and didn’t bring any more snow. The ski resort recorded 25cm of snow in the past week, including about 20cm which fell on Friday night. The ski season is not set to officially open until 12 June, but the resort’s snow cameras show Mt Kosciuszko blanketed in a layer of snow, with light falls on the lower runs and the snow machine operating in some areas. Victoria also recorded snow across the alps on Friday night and Saturday. BOM’s Ilana Cherny said snow had fallen on “all the major mountains,” including Mt Hotham, Mt Buller, and Mt Baw Baw. There was no recorded snowfall in lower peaks like Mt Dandenong, despite forecasts of snow down to 700m in some areas. Snow cameras at Mt Bulla, Mt Hotham and Falls creek showed a heavy dusting of snow on Sunday morning. “It’s not the first time we have seen snow this year, we had a few falls earlier in autumn,” Cherny said. “As we get closer to the ski season, we are expecting there will be more and more snow.” Other parts of Victoria experienced freezing and blustery conditions on Friday and into Saturday. Combienbar in Gippsland, about 450km east of Melbourne and 100km as the crow flies from Perisher, recorded its coldest May day in 27 years, with temperatures peaking at just 5.2C. Temperatures in Victoria are expected to remain cool for the first half of the week, Cherny says. 
Mildura in the north of the state will reach 20C on Wednesday. Melbourne is forecast to reach 18C on Tuesday and Wednesday, before cooling off again. In Sydney, Kirkup said the nights would continue to be cool and clear, with the maximum temperature rising to 21C on Wednesday. “There will still be some sub-zero temperatures for a lot of places but as we get into the week it will get warmer,” she said. 
Hong Kong recorded at least 11 deaths over the weekend under the cold weather warning as the city suffered the impact of a winter monsoon near the coast of Guangdong. The city reported the deaths of six men and five women on Saturday and Sunday in various districts – the youngest aged 54. The causes of their deaths are to be confirmed, but they are suspected to be related to the cold temperatures. 
The police received multiple reports of elderly people collapsing in their homes or on the streets as Hong Kong recorded lows of nine degrees Celsius in urban areas on Saturday. The Centre for Health Protection cautioned that citizens, especially elderly people and people with chronic illness should take precautions during the cold snap. A spokesperson said in a statement that the low temperatures can easily trigger or exacerbate diseases, especially among the elderly and persons suffering from heart disease, respiratory illness or other chronic illnesses. The CHP advised citizens to wear warm clothes and ensure adequate ventilation when using heaters indoors. The center also asked citizens to exercise regularly to help with blood circulation and heat production. Temporary cold shelters remained open on Monday during the daytime while the cold weather warning was still effective. 
Temperatures in Hong Kong are expected to rise throughout the week, with highs of 20 degrees Celsius and lows of 12 degrees Celsius into the weekend.