Plastic lasts pretty much forever - but the durability that makes it so useful to us in our everyday lives means the handy material is creating a widespread pollution problem. Every year over 250 million tons of plastic is produced and that amount is increasing every year. When it is thrown away, some of it breaks down into tiny pieces, called microplastics, that find their way into every part of our ecosystem. From the water we drink to the food we eat; they are everywhere and they’re often invisible. 
Plastic particles can be small enough to be picked up by weather systems and eventually rain down from the sky, polluting the place where they land. Last year, UK capital London was found to have the highest levels of atmospheric microplastic pollution recorded, compared to cities in China, France, and Germany. The study done by King’s College University discovered that the particles came from a variety of sources, including thin films from single-use items and foam from polystyrene packaging. There was one main offender, however. 
Fibrous microplastics created by the breakdown of synthetic textiles made up 92 per cent of the pollution measured. These fibers are shed into the water when clothing made from fabrics like polyester and nylon are washed. Because these fragments can be so small, they can be transported by the wind and end up falling to the ground a good way off from where the original plastic item was initially dumped. Storms help the plastics get into the atmosphere, causing them to spread from urban centers like London further out in the countryside. 
The California city experienced a rare snow day - one of only a handful from the last 125 years. The last time measurable snow fell in San Diego it was 1967, with snow flurries seen in 2008 too. The polar bears were caught on film rolling in drifts, eating snowballs, and burying themselves in the snow. Snowstorms have left remarkable scenes across much of the US too. The states of New York, Minnesota, Iowa, Kansas, Arizona and Nebraska will also welcome the New Year covered in snow. 
Europe faced Storm Bella with winds of up to 100 kph as well as heavy snowfall. It has now been discovered that some of the most isolated wilderness in the United States has seen rainfall containing plastic pollution. Research by a team at Utah State University has found that more than 1000 tones of plastic per year fall in protected areas of nature like the Grand Canyon and Joshua Tree National Park. That is equivalent to around 182 million plastic bags and, as with those found in cities, most came from fibers given off by the clothing we wear. “We were shocked at the estimated deposition rates and kept trying to figure out where our calculations went wrong,” said lead scientist, Professor Janice Brahney. “This ubiquity of microplastics in the atmosphere and the subsequent deposition to remote terrestrial and aquatic environments raise widespread ecological and societal concerns,” Brahney adds. By looking at where the storms that deposited these microplastics had come from, the team were able to map how they were travelling such long distances. 
Rain was found to be removing plastics from the atmosphere, thanks to the tiny particles acting as a seed for droplets to form around. An even bigger concern was dry weather systems where winds would blow the pollution for thousands of miles, via jet streams in North America which run West to East across the continent. Although the results of the research are shocking, Brahney explains that working out how these pieces of plastic end up in certain places is the best way to prevent their spread. “Identifying the key mechanisms of plastic emission is the first step in developing global-scale solutions.” 
From the Pacific Northwest to the Rocky Mountains, summers in the West are marked by wildfires and smoke. New research from the University of Utah ties the worsening trend of extreme poor air quality events in Western regions to wildfire activity, with growing trends of smoke impacting air quality clear into September. The work is published in Environmental Research Letters. "In a big picture sense, we can expect it to get worse," says Kai Wilmot, lead author of the study and doctoral student in the Department of Atmospheric Sciences. "We're going to see more fire area burned in the Western U.S. between now and in 2050. If we extrapolate our trends forward, it seems to indicate that a lot of urban centers are going to have trouble in meeting air quality standards in as little time as 15 years."
Many of the West's inhabitants have seen smoky summer skies in recent years. Last year, dramatic images of an orange-tinted San Francisco Bay Area called attention to the far-reaching problem of wildfire smoke. Wilmot, a native of the Pacific Northwest, has seen the smoke as well and, with his colleagues, looked at trends of extreme air quality events in the West from 2000 to 2019 to see if they correlated with summer wildfires.
Using air measurements of PM2.5, or the amount of particulate matter in the air with diameters less than 2.5 microns, from the Environmental Protection Agency and the IMPROVE monitoring network, along with measurements of fire area burned and the PM2.5 emitted from those fires, the researchers found consistent trends in air quality that correlated with wildfire activity -- but that had different spatial patterns in August than in September.
Over the years studied, the researchers noticed that the mean air quality was worsening in the Pacific Northwest in the average August when sensors indicated wildfire smoke events. "That's pretty dramatic," Wilmot says, "that extreme events are strong enough to pull the mean up so that we're seeing an overall increase in particulate matter during August across much of the Pacific Northwest and portions of California. The Pacific Northwest seems like it's just really getting the brunt of it."
The reason for that, he says, is that the regions around the Pacific Northwest, in British Columbia and Northern California, both experience wildfires around August. The mountainous Pacific Northwest, Wilmot says, sits in the middle. But by September, the researchers found, wildfire activity slows in British Columbia and shifts to the Rocky Mountains. The smoke shifts to -- the researchers saw emerging trends correlating wildfire smoke with declines in September air quality in Wyoming and Montana. "We see the PM2.5 trends start to pick up a bit more in the Rockies and they become more statistically significant, a little bit stronger and more spatially coherent," Wilmot says. 
The study findings show that the magnitude and significance of air quality trends increases as you go from the southern states of Arizona and New Mexico toward the Pacific Northwest. In Utah, Wilmot says, air quality trends are near the edge of statistical significance, with evidence for impact from wildfires, but evidence that's less robust than in the Pacific Northwest and California. "Thinking about events like the smoke transport from fires in the Bay Area this past summer," Wilmot says, "I would not be surprised to see trends in Utah become increasingly convincing with additional data." Other researchers in other studies have suggested that the future will bring more fire areas burned in the Western U.S., with an accompanying increase in wildfire smoke exposure throughout the West and the impacts of that smoke on human health. Wilmot notes that the trends the researchers see in the Pacific Northwest in August are "pretty robust," he says, while the September trends in Montana and Wyoming are still "emerging." Various studies show that people of color are disproportionately exposed to air pollution in the United States. However, it was unclear whether this unequal exposure is due mainly to a few types of emission sources or whether the causes are more systemic. 
A new study that models peoples' exposure to air pollution -- resolved by race-ethnicity and income level -- shows that exposure disparities among people of color and white people are driven by nearly all, rather than only a few, emission source types. The study led by University of Illinois Urbana Champaign civil and environmental engineering professor Christopher Tessum is published in the journal Science Advances. "Community organizations have been experiencing and advocating against environmental injustice for decades," Tessum said. "Our study contributes to an already extensive body of evidence with the new finding that there is no single air pollution source, or a small number of sources, that account for this disparity. Instead, the disparity is caused by almost all of the sources." The team used an air quality model to analyze Environmental Protection Agency data for more than 5,000 emission source types, including industry, agriculture, coal electric utilities, light- and heavy-duty gasoline vehicles, diesel vehicles, off-road vehicles and equipment, construction, residential sources, road dust and other miscellaneous small emissions sources. Each source type studied contributes to fine particle air pollution, defined as particles being 2.5 micrometers or less in diameter, the study reports. To identify patterns of air pollution exposure associated with race-ethnicity and income, the researchers combined the spatial air pollution patterns predicted in their air quality model with residential population counts from the U.S. Census Bureau to identify differences in exposure by race-ethnicity and income.
Researchers found that for the 2014 U.S. total population average, fine particle air pollution exposures from the majority of source types are higher than average for people of color and lower than average for white people. The data indicate that white people are exposed to lower-than-average concentrations from emissions source types that, when combined, cause 60% of their total exposure, the study reports. Conversely, people of color experience greater-than-average exposures from source types that, when combined, cause 75% of their total exposure. This disparity exists at the country, state and city level and for people within all income levels. "We find that nearly all emission sectors cause disproportionate exposures for people of color on average," said co-author Julian Marshall, a professor of civil and environmental engineering at the University of Washington. "The inequities we report are a result of systemic racism: Over time, people of color and pollution have been pushed together, not just in a few cases but for nearly all types of emissions." The researchers found that air pollution disparities arise from a more systemic set of causes than previously understood. "We were struck by how these systemic disparities exist for people of color not only in certain neighborhoods but at every spatial scale in the U.S.," said co-author Joshua Apte, a professor of civil and environmental engineering at the University of California, Berkeley. 
The problem exists within urban and rural areas, many distinct U.S. regions, and for people living within almost all the American cities. "This new study adds context to our previous work, which showed that a disproportionate consumption of goods and services -- which is an underlying cause of pollution -- compounds the exposure of people of color to air pollution," said co-author Jason Hill, a professor of bioproducts and biosystems engineering at the University of Minnesota. 
The study results come with caveats, the researchers said. The emissions data, air quality modeling and population counts all contain previously quantified uncertainty. However, because the team's findings are consistent across states, urban and rural areas, and concentration levels, they are unlikely to be an artifact of model or measurement bias. This study focuses on outdoor air pollution concentrations in places where people reside and does not account for variability in mobility, access to health care and baseline mortality and morbidity rates, among other factors. "Some assume that when there is a systematic racial-ethnic disparity, such as the one we see here, that the underlying cause is a difference in income," Tessum said. "Because the data shows that the disparity cross-cuts all income levels, our study reinforces previous findings that race, rather than income, is what truly drives air pollution-exposure disparities." 
The researchers say they hope these findings will highlight potential opportunities for addressing this persistent environmental inequity. 
The effects of the steadily increasing amount of plastic in the ocean are complex and not yet fully understood. Scientists at GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research Kiel have now shown for the first time that the uptake of microplastics by zooplankton can have significant effects on the marine ecosystem even at low concentrations. The study, published in the international journal Nature Communications, further indicates that the resulting changes may be responsible for a loss of oxygen in the ocean beyond that caused by global warming. 
Plastic debris in the ocean is a widely known problem for large marine mammals, fish and seabirds. These animals can mistake plastic objects, such as plastic bags, for similar-looking food items, such as jellyfish. Tiny zooplankton can also mistake very small plastic particles for food and ingest them either accidentally or by chance (when the particles have combined with organic particles). 
The direct effects of such microplastic ingestion on zooplankton are poorly understood, but the broader effects on ecosystems of zooplankton replacing some of their food with plastic are much less well understood. Now, for the first time, a research team has used an Earth system model to simulate how zooplankton that ingest microplastics could affect the base of the ocean food web and nutrient cycling. The results, now published in the international journal Nature Communications, suggest that even low concentrations of microplastics can have a strong impact on ecosystems. "This influence is already sufficient to affect global nutrient cycling," says Dr Karin Kvale, lead author of the study. "These findings are significant because there has long been scepticism in the scientific community that microplastic concentrations in the ocean are high enough to have any impact on nutrient cycling," says Dr Karin Kvale "Our study shows that even at levels present in the ocean today, it may already be the case if zooplankton replace some of their natural food with microplastics. If zooplankton eat the microplastics and thus take up less food, this can have far-reaching ecological effects that can, for example, lead to increased algal blooms via a reduction in feeding pressure that affect the oxygen content of the oceans almost as much as climate change," Kvale continues. These findings point to a new potential driver of human-induced ocean change that has not been considered before. However, Kvale points out that the results are "very preliminary" because little is yet known about how the base of the food web interacts with microplastic pollution. Further work on this topic is needed, she says, but the study provides strong motivation to expand the capacity of Earth system models to include pollution effects as a new driver of ocean change. 
Wildfire smoke can trigger a host of respiratory and cardiovascular symptoms, ranging from runny nose and cough to a potentially life-threatening heart attack or stroke. A new study suggests that the dangers posed by wildfire smoke may also extend to the largest organ in the human body, and our first line of defense against outside threat: the skin. 
During the two weeks in November 2018 when wildfire smoke from the Camp Fire choked the San Francisco Bay Area, health clinics in San Francisco saw an uptick in the number of patients visiting with concerns of eczema, also known as atopic dermatitis, and general itch, compared to the same time of the year in 2015 and 2016, the study found. 
Findings suggest that even short-term exposure to hazardous air quality from wildfire smoke can be damaging to skin health. The report, carried out by physician researchers at the University of California, San Francisco, in collaboration with researchers at the University of California, Berkeley, appears on April 21 in the journal JAMA Dermatology. "Existing research on air pollution and health outcomes has focused primarily on cardiac and respiratory health outcomes, and understandably so. But there is a gap in the research connecting air pollution and skin health," said study lead author Raj Fadadu, a student in the UC Berkeley-UCSF Joint Medical Program. "Skin is the largest organ of the human body, and it's in constant interaction with the external environment. So, it makes sense that changes in the external environment, such as increases or decreases in air pollution, could affect our skin health." 
Air pollution from wildfires, which consists of fine particulate matter (PM2.5), polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), and gases, can impact both normal and eczema-prone skin in a variety of ways. These pollutants often contain chemical compounds that act like keys, allowing them to slip past the skin's outer barrier and penetrate into cells, where they can disrupt gene transcription, trigger oxidative stress or cause inflammation. 
Eczema, or atopic dermatitis, is a chronic condition which affects the skin's ability to serve as an effective barrier against environmental factors. Because the skin's barrier has been compromised, people with this condition are prone to flare-ups of red, itchy skin in response to irritants, and may be even more prone to harm from air pollution. "Skin is a very excellent physical barrier that separates us and protects us from the environment," said study senior author Dr. Maria Wei, a dermatologist and melanoma specialist at UCSF. "However, there are certain skin disorders, such as atopic dermatitis, in which the barrier is not fully functional. It's not normal even when you don't have a rash. So, it would make sense that when exposed to significant air pollution, people with this condition might see an effect on the skin." 
Even Short Burst of Air Pollution During the Camp Fire Harms Skin Health. 
Earlier studies have found a link between atopic dermatitis and air pollution in cities with high background levels of air pollution from cars and industry. However, this is the first study to examine the impacts of a very short burst of extremely hazardous air from wildfires. Despite being located 175 miles away from the Camp Fire, San Francisco saw an approximately nine-fold increase in baseline PM2.5 levels during the time of the blaze. To conduct the study, the team examined data from more than 8,000 visits to dermatology clinics by both adults and children between October of 2015, 2016 and 2018, and February of the following year. They found that, during the Camp Fire, clinic visits for atopic dermatitis and general itch increased significantly in both adult and pediatric patients. "Fully 89 percent of the patients that had itch during the time of the Camp Fire did not have a known diagnosis of atopic dermatitis, suggesting that folks with normal skin also experienced irritation and/or absorption of toxins within a very short period of time," Wei said. While skin conditions like eczema and itch may not be as life-threatening as the respiratory and cardiovascular impacts of wildfire smoke, they can still severely impact people's lives, the researchers say. The study also documented increased rates of prescribed medications, such as steroids, during times of high air pollution, suggesting that patients can experience severe symptoms. 
Individuals can protect their skin during wildfire season by staying indoors, wearing clothing that covers the skin if they do go outside, and using emollients, which can strengthen the skin's barrier function. A new medication to treat eczema, called Tapinarof, is now in clinical trials and could also be a useful tool during times of bad air. "A lot of the conversations about the health implications of climate change and air pollution don't focus on skin health, but it's important to recognize that skin conditions do affect people's quality of life, their social interactions and how they feel psychologically," Fadadu said. "I hope that these health impacts can be more integrated into policies and discussions about the wide-ranging health effects of climate change and air pollution." 
It’s make-it-or-break-it time for the federal government’s national price on pollution. 
The Supreme Court of Canada will decide Thursday whether Ottawa’s “carbon tax” is constitutional or if the federal Liberals overstepped into provincial jurisdiction. 
University of Ottawa law professor Nathalie Chalifour said the legal question is about constitutionality, but the case is existential for Canada’s federalism. “I think the broader question is does Canada have a national approach to combating climate change and greenhouse-gas emissions or is it going to have to rely on individual provinces to take action?” she said. 
The legal decision also has political implications for a federal Liberal government whose climate plan rests heavily on being able to price carbon. 
The decision will also be a key ruling for conservative premiers and the Opposition Conservatives in Ottawa, who have fought hard against a consumer carbon tax for years. The case is in the court in the first place because Saskatchewan, Ontario, and Alberta challenged Ottawa’s law in court. If the provinces lose, it could be a pivotal moment for Canadian politics. Carbon taxing has played a role in the last two federal elections, and been a factor in provincial elections including in Alberta and Ontario, where conservative premiers scrapped carbon-pricing systems as soon as they took power. 
Ottawa argues the federal government has the power to price greenhouse gases because climate change is an issue of national concern, and emissions don’t stop at provincial borders. The three provinces that brought the challenges, supported by a majority of other provinces, argued that this is an overreach into provincial taxation law and control over the production of natural resources. 
The Supreme Court decision could be a landmark decision on the division between federal and provincial powers in areas that were not on the radar when Canada became a country more than 150 years ago. 
The Greenhouse Gas Pollution Pricing Act, passed in 2018, sets a minimum price on carbon emissions and imposes a federal pricing system in provinces that don’t have equivalent systems of their own. Right now, that covers Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba and Ontario. The levy this year, set at $30 per tonne of greenhouse-gas emissions produced, adds about $3.50 to the cost of filling a 40 L tank of gas, and about $15 on the average monthly Canadian natural gas bill. It applies on almost all input fuels including diesel and propane, coal and heavy fuel oil.
In a bid to get voter buy-in and prevent the price from raising the price on fuels and most consumer purchases, 90 per cent of the revenues are returned to families in the affected provinces through income-tax rebates. The other 10 per cent goes to programs to help small and medium-sized businesses, universities, hospitals, municipalities and schools reduce their carbon footprints. 
Heavy emitters like coal-fired power plants and big factories, are charged the price on a portion of the emissions they produce rather than on the fuels they buy. Appeals courts in Ontario and Saskatchewan upheld the law as a matter of national concern in 2019, while the Alberta Court of Appeal struck it down a year later for interfering with provinces’ constitutional authority to develop their natural resources. Ontario and Saskatchewan appealed the decisions to the Supreme Court while British Columbia, which supports Ottawa’s position, appealed the Alberta decision. The Supreme Court heard arguments on them together over two days in September. 
The federal government is pumping $32.3 million into reducing natural gas use and greenhouse-gas emissions in Manitoba. The money will go directly to Manitoba’s newly created Crown cooperation Efficiency Manitoba, with the province matching the federal government’s contribution, for a total exceeding $60 million. Rebates and incentives will be offered to residents and businesses for using energy-efficient equipment.
Savings in natural gas emissions will be encouraged through installation of home insulation and smart thermostats along with furnace and boiler upgrades for households in the province. “For the first time ever, Canada has a plan to not only meet, but exceed a climate target,” said Winnipeg South Centre MP Jim Carr, who made the announcement Friday on behalf of Canada’s Environment and Climate Change Minister, Jonathan Wilkinson. “By cutting pollution like energy waste from our homes and buildings, we are putting that plan into action and creating a cleaner, more prosperous future,” Carr continued. Manitoba’s Conservation and Climate Minister Sarah Guillemard said the rebate will work out to about $488 of savings per household. “Manitoba knows the value of investing in energy efficiency,” she explained. “This joint investment under our Made-in-Manitoba Climate and Green Plan will reduce carbon emissions in households and businesses, and create clean energy jobs for Manitobans.” As part of the new initiative, Efficiency Manitoba will enable the creation of 1,800 jobs with the goal of reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by 488,000 tonnes. 
An air quality advisory has been issued for eastern parts of Metro Vancouver and the Fraser Valley due to high concentrations of ground-level ozone. The regional district says the ozone could persist until Monday or longer if hot weather sticks around.
Ground-level ozone is created when pollutants from fossil fuel emissions mix with organic compounds in sunlight. People with underlying health conditions, seniors and children are particularly vulnerable to ground level ozone. People are advised to avoid strenuous activities later in the day, when concentrations are highest.
The world’s largest cargo plane recently landed in Toronto, delivering 130 tons of medical supplies from China, including personal protective equipment (PPE). The Antonov AN-225 has circled the globe during the COVID-19 pandemic, bringing shipments of equipment to countries crying out for supplies to tackle the novel coronavirus.
PPE is vital to health-care workers as they treat the millions of cases worldwide. Face masks, however, are now commonly used among the general public.
It’s recommended that Canadians wear non-medical face coverings in their everyday lives where physical distancing isn’t possible. Many people are also using disposable latex or vinyl gloves, although the PHAC says handwashing offers more protection than using gloves. Even if someone wears gloves, the PHAC adds, they must wash their hands anyway. As a result, a mountain of single-use masks and gloves is already piling up across the world, and the items can often be seen carelessly discarded on sidewalks and in parking lots.
Although many disposable masks may look like they’re made of paper or natural fabric, they are manufactured using polymers that take decades or centuries to decompose.
A recent study from University College London’s Plastic Waste Innovation Hub said that if every person in the United Kingdom used one single-use face mask each day for a year, it would create 66,000 tons of contaminated plastic waste — or about one kilogram per person. Earlier this year, just before the pandemic, she volunteered to join a leg of the eXXpedition project, sailing between Panama and the Galapagos Islands. On each leg, crewmembers gather and analyze ocean plastics to help better understand where the solutions to plastic pollution lie. “This one particular day that stood out for all of us, we were about two days from land. No one around us, no boats and people, nothing,” Nash said from her Brighton home. “We will always need single-use plastic and disposable items in health care, specifically for infection control. My message was always that so we can continue to do that in health care and protect people from infection, we need to be more mindful about the types of plastics and the types of pointless plastics that we’re using in other aspects of our life.” The former U.S. Army medical coordinator is the executive vice-president for Medical Device International Services at the public health regulatory company NSF International.
The use of even simple homemade bandanas will also free up the medical-grade PPE needed by health professionals. When it comes to gloves, Trautman thinks some hand covering is better than nothing, but only if the wearer is extremely careful in how they use gloves. She uses washable garden gloves when shopping for groceries, and she makes sure to remove them safely afterwards, as recommended by agencies like PHAC. “If you don’t dispose of it (properly), any surface that it touches exposes that particular surface,” said Trautman. “If you’re having anybody that has to pick up that PPE, that’s not been disposed of properly, then it’s potentially affecting them as well.” Turkey has become the latest destination for British plastic waste, which ends up dumped, burned or left to pollute the ocean, a Greenpeace investigation has found.
More than half of the plastic the British government says is being recycled are sent overseas, often to countries without the necessary infrastructure to do so. The UK exported 688,000 tons of discarded plastic packaging in 2020, a daily average of 1.8m kilos. Just 486,000 tons were recycled in the UK. China was a key destination, but since it banned the import of many types of plastic in 2017, Turkey has emerged as the main receiver of British plastic waste. UK exports to the country increased from 12,000 tons in 2016 to 209,642 tons in 2020, about 30% of the UK’s plastic waste exports. Instead of being recycled, however, Greenpeace investigators in Turkey found plastic waste from leading supermarkets dumped, burned, piled into mountains and left to spill into rivers and the sea.
Greenpeace examined 10 locations around the southern Turkish city of Adana in March and published the data on Monday in its report, Trashed. It found plastic packaging from Tesco, Asda, Co-op, Aldi, Sainsbury’s, Lidl and Marks & Spencer dumped, left in bags or burned. Plastic rubbish from retailers such as B&Q, Debenhams, Poundland and Spar was also found.
Plastic bags and packaging from the supermarkets as well as Lucozade and Fanta bottles were dumped in fields, near rivers, on train tracks and by the roadside, Greenpeace investigators found. In many cases the plastic had been burned. The waste was in bags piled high on top of each other, many of which were ripped open. Other plastic waste was spilling into waterways and floating downstream. On the Mediterranean coast, investigators found more British plastic strewn across the beach, including the wrapping from a pack of Andrex toilet paper. 
The British waste had been exported recently. It included a coronavirus antigen test and a packet with a use-by date of August 2021. 
Greenpeace is calling on the UK government to enact the environment bill, and use the powers within it to ban all plastic waste exports. It wants to see an immediate ban on all plastic waste exports to countries that are not members of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, such as Malaysia, and on mixed plastic waste to OECD countries such as Turkey. As well as the impact of pollution, Interpol said last year that the huge increase in plastic rubbish being sent to Turkey and other countries was causing an explosion in the illegal waste trade. Nihan Temiz Ataş, the biodiversity projects lead at Greenpeace Mediterranean, who is based in Turkey, said: “As this new evidence shows, plastic waste coming from the UK to Turkey is an environmental threat, not an economic opportunity. Uncontrolled imports of plastic waste do nothing but increase the problems that exist in Turkey’s own recycling system.” Other European countries have also chosen Turkey as the main receiver of their rubbish. About 241 lorryloads of plastic waste come to Turkey every day from across Europe, 20 times more than was imported in 2016. 
UK and EU rules say that plastic waste should not be exported to countries unless it is going to be recycled. Turkey’s recycling rate, however, is 12%, the lowest of any OECD member. “As far as we can see from the data and the field, we continue to be Europe’s largest plastic waste dump,” said Ataş. 
The Turkish government has imposed a crackdown on plastic waste imports, announcing a ban on imports of many types of plastic waste from January. UK trade data, however, suggests the move has had little impact. The country sent more plastic waste to Turkey in January 2021 than it did in the same month last year, up from 12,400 to 14,500 tons. The figure for February 2021 was 30,300 tons, more than double the amount for the same month in 2020. UK government trade data shows that Malaysia was the second destination for British plastic waste, receiving 65,000 tons in 2020, followed by Poland, which received 38,000 tons. 
A “huge” increase in the number of visits to doctors by children with asthma problems occurs after a week of raised air pollution, according to a study. The number of inhaler prescriptions also increases significantly. 
Dirty air is already known to increase hospital treatment for severe asthma attacks and other respiratory problems. But the new research is the first using clinical data to show increased illness among the much bigger number of people who seek treatment from their GP. The researchers said children were the most severely affected by the raised air pollution, but there were increases in GP consultations and inhaler prescriptions for people of all ages. Overall, they said, the study demonstrates that air pollution, particularly from diesel vehicles, affects whole communities. The researchers called for action to cut air pollution and said pollution warnings could be used to help those at risk to prepare for episodes of increased dirty air. The research was conducted in south London over five years and analysed more than 750,000 respiratory consultations at GPs and inhaler prescriptions. 
The average level of particle pollution in Lambeth during the study period was 21 micrograms per cubic metre of air (µg/m3). The researchers found that when this pollution was raised by 9 µg/m3 for a week, the number of child consultations for asthma and respiratory infections went up by 7.5%. For nitrogen dioxide pollution, the average level was 51µg/m3, and a rise of 22µg/m3 was linked with consultations rising by 6%. “These are huge increases,” said Mark Ashworth, at King’s College London, who led the research. “We’d expected much smaller associations. This is a very large shift of the dial and has never been shown before.” 
Children are already among the most frequent visitors to GPs and respiratory problems are one of the most common reasons for consultations, he said, so these percentage rises mean a large number of extra visits. 
Air pollution levels have reduced since the study period, but NO2 levels remain illegally high in many urban areas and particle pollution is frequently above WHO guidelines, though there is thought to be no safe limit. “It is not just a few severely affected people who are going to be hit by particulates and NO2,” said Ashworth. “It’s a large proportion of people who are vulnerable. Therefore, anybody taking asthma inhalers is going to have a degree of vulnerability and needs to be prepared.” 
Dust storms in China have occurred since long before humans had a widespread impact on the landscape. During the repeated ice ages of the past 2.6 million years, huge volumes of dust were generated by the advance and retreat of ice sheets, settling to form deposits known as loess. Over the millennia, these have accumulated to a thickness of up to 350 meters to form the Chinese Loess Plateau, covering an area larger than France. The loess is rich in mineral nutrients, and makes for productive agricultural soil. It is largely this farmland which is now being eroded again by the wind and recirculating as dust. This might sound like an act of geological pedantry, but it represents a crucial difference, and it comes down to a question of size. Sand grains are mineral particles greater than 0.06mm in diameter – the sort that scratches your ankles on a windy day at the beach and ends up spoiling the picnic by feeling crunchy in your sandwiches. Dust is potentially a far more serious issue than blowing sand. Dust particles (or silt and clay as many geologists would term them) are those smaller grains, which would feel silky to the touch, and don’t scratch the skin. Crucially, these smaller, lighter grains may travel much, much further. 
Alzheimer’s disease is the most common cause of dementia. It slowly destroys memory, thinking and behaviors, and eventually the ability to carry out daily tasks. As scientists search for a cure, we have been learning more about the genetic and environmental factors that can increase a person’s risks of developing late-onset Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias. In particular, my colleagues and I in preventive medicine, neurology and gerontology have been looking at the role of outdoor air pollution. Our early research in 2017 became the first study in the U.S. using both human and animal data to show that brain aging processes worsened by air pollution may increase dementia risk. Our latest studies show how older women who lived in locations with high levels of PM2.5 – the fine particulate matter produced by vehicles and power plants – suffered memory loss and Alzheimer’s-like brain shrinkage not seen in women living with cleaner air. 
The Chinese capital of Beijing was covered in thick dust on Monday as it experienced what its weather bureau has called the worst sandstorm in a decade. The storm caused an unprecedented spike in air pollution measurements - with pollution levels in some districts at 160 times the recommended limit. 
China's Global Times media outlet reported that at least 12 provinces in the country, including the capital, had been affected, and the weather was likely to continue through the day on Monday before improving at night. Hundreds of flights were cancelled or grounded as the sky was covered by an apocalyptic-looking orange haze. The sand is being brought in by strong winds from Mongolia. 
In Mongolia the severe sandstorms have reportedly caused six deaths and left dozens missing. 
Beijing was historically hit by sandstorms on a much more regular basis, but pollution reduction projects - including prohibitions on new coal-fired power plants, restrictions on the number of cars on the road and reforestation - have significantly improved air quality. Sandstorms like the one seen this week, caused by wind, are harder to control. 