Rain, showers, lightning and thunderstorm may as well be the highlight to sign off the winter season for Kolkata. 
Severe flooding across several areas in the Indonesian capital forced more than a thousand people to flee their homes on Saturday, with the country’s meteorology agency warning the conditions were set to continue for the next week. 
The low-pressure area over Bay of Bengal has become well marked and is likely to concentrate into a depression and intensify into a cyclonic storm and cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts on November 25 bringing heavy rains, the Met department said on Sunday. Under its influence, on November 25, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karikkal regions are likely to witness rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy showers at a few places and extremely heavy rains at isolated places. Sea condition would be rough and wind speed is likely to gradually increase from Sunday onwards, "gusting 100 kmph over southwest Bay of Bengal and along and off Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts around the region of landfall on November 25," a bulletin said. Fishermen have been advised to stay off the sea and local authorities said they have also advised fishermen who have already set out for fishing to return. 
The rainfall activity is likely to increase over south peninsular India from November 23 onwards with fairly widespread showers and thunderstorm activity over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karikkal regions between 24 and 26 November. 
In the Indian monsoon region, initial monsoon rains are experienced over south Andaman Sea and the monsoon winds then advance north-westwards across the Bay of Bengal. According to the new normal dates of monsoon onset or progress, the southwest monsoon advances over the Andaman Sea around May 22. As a cyclone is expected to form over the Arabian Sea, the cross-equatorial south westerlies have temporarily strengthened over the Arabian Sea. The cross-equatorial flow is very likely to strengthen and deepen over the Bay of Bengal from May 20 and a sustained rainfall activity is likely over the south Bay of Bengal and Andaman Nicobar Islands from May 21. Hence, the monsoon advance over Andaman and Nicobar Islands is very likely around May 21. 
The India Meteorological Department has said monsoon is expected to be normal this year. People posted photos on social media of residents wading through shoulder-high muddy waters, cars almost entirely submerged, and search teams evacuating elderly residents in rubber dinghies in the peak of the monsoon season. 
The floods come at a time when Indonesia is already grappling with the highest caseload and death tally from COVID-19 in Southeast Asia and an economic recession. Indonesia’s meteorology agency has warned the heaviest rain of the season may fall in and around the densely populated capital in the coming days, with extreme weather, including heavy rain, thunder and strong winds, expected throughout next week. 
Jakarta would be on alert for the next four days with data from the meteorology agency showing intense rainfall in the past 24 hours with the area of Pasar Minggu, in Jakarta’s south, recording 226 millimeters of rain since Friday. 
Hailstorms are likely to be experienced in some parts of the Vidarbha and Marathwada regions of Maharashtra in the next two days, given the moist winds from the Bay of Bengal, an India Meteorological Department official said on Wednesday. Whereas in some parts of Gujarat, there are chances of moisture clouds from the Arabian sea between February 18 and February 21. Unseasonal rains are possible in Panchmahal, Dahod, Mahisaagar and some parts of central Gujarat along with Daang, Valsaad, Taapi and Saaputara, if clouds with more moisture are formed. There is also a possibility of cloudy weather in Saurashtra along with Aravali and Sabarkantha. Cold winds will blow in the northern hilly part of the country from February 21 to February 23 in the morning due to which snowfall and non-seasonal rains are predicted. 
In Kolkata, hot weather starts catching up in February itself when the day temperature inches toward the 30°C mark and the minimum temperature hovers around in the high teens during the second half of the month. This change coupled with a bit of moisture lashes Kolkata with a possibility of rains. 
The weather situation is shaping up to be such a wet spell over Kolkata, slightly intense and prolonged too, between February 17 and February 21. The start and end of the spell could be mild and adequately wet in between. 
Heavy rains lashed Chennai and its suburbs on Tuesday, inundating houses in some low-lying areas and affecting normal life, while authorities released surplus water from the city reservoirs. The incessant rains, which returned to the city after a break of several weeks, led to water logging in many roads and motorists and office-goers faced a tough time reaching their destinations. Water entered houses in a few low-lying areas and civic officials were engaged in clearing flooded subways and key intersections. Amid the intense showers, vehicles moved at a snail's pace while two-wheeler riders and drivers of auto-rickshaws and cars found it very difficult to negotiate roads which were covered by sheets of water in several areas. The sudden downpour prompted officials to release surplus water from reservoirs around the city. These reservoirs are the key sources that help the metropolis' meet its requirement of drinking water. 
Authorities advised people living close to the banks of Adyar River and other channels that carry the surplus water from the reservoirs to not get close to the river or other water bodies and stay at safe places. Delayed opening of the reservoir in 2015 after very heavy rains was seen as a trigger for the devastating floods that hit the city then, though the government had rejected it. 
Torrential rain, hail and lightning has struck the UK, with downpours set to continue for the rest of the week. Widespread rainfall, hailstones and even lightning were seen across the country on Wednesday. Political party leaders braved the wet weather as they pushed for votes across towns in England ahead of Thursday’s local elections. 
Forecasters say the wet weather is expected to continue in most areas into the weekend. Hail could even cause disruption to roads and public transport, it is warned. Temperatures are also set to plummet to lows of minus 5C in the coldest spots overnight, with a chilly day for many on Thursday. Met Office forecaster told the PA news agency, Wednesday has been a showery day across the UK, with downpours of heavy rain and hail and even some thunder and lightning. 
The east coast of England, including parts of London, central England, Scotland and some areas in Wales were affected, but this should die out in most places by the evening, before it turns quite cold overnight. The coldest spots could see temperatures as low as minus 5C, particularly in the north of England and parts of Scotland and Northern Ireland. For the rest of the week, rainfall will be rather hefty in some places, with as much as 5-10mm falling in just an hour in the worst-affected spots. A significant amount of hail could potentially cause some disruption to roads and public transport. Sunday should be drier for most, with some showers in places, but in the south-east of England, temperatures could climb into the low twenties by the afternoon. People should make the most of any dry or sunny spots, as it is unlikely to last and the rest of May will be unsettled and changeable for everyone. This could be London’s wettest month on record, the Met Office has said. The capital recorded 139mm of rain between the start of the month and October 25. This is almost double the average of 78mm for the entire month. 
October is usually the wettest month in the UK and rainfall this year has been largely concentrated in Greater London, the home counties in south-east England, and a smaller area of north-east Scotland. With rainfall for the final six days of the month yet to be recorded, October 2020 is already ranking ninth rainiest in London since 1862. Met Office spokesperson Grahame Madge said with “considerable rainfall” expected in the coming days it is “quite likely” this month will break the October record, and potentially that of any other month. Although Greater London and the home counties are experiencing a particularly wet October, rainfall around the UK has been only “slightly above average”. Virtually everywhere was wet on October 3, but since then there have been pockets of the UK which has seen higher rainfall totals, especially London and parts of the south-east. This is because of the way the jet stream has steered low-pressure systems more to the south of England. 
The UK’s wettest month of 2020 so far was February, when many regions were hit with devastating floods which destroyed homes and businesses. He added that climate change is having a “pronounced effect” on temperatures in the UK, raising averages by about 1 since pre-industrial times, and the warmer atmosphere could be causing increased rainfall too. He added that UK climate projections show warmer, wet winters and hotter, drier summers will lead to “more extreme rainfall records” by the end of the century. Hertfordshire is also seeing its ninth wettest October since 1862, with Bedfordshire, Berkshire, Buckinghamshire and Oxford shire experiencing their tenth soggiest. 
UK is set to be battered by rain and strong gales as temperatures continue to plummet this week. Showers will sweep across the country for the next few days while strong gales are set to batter the south west on Thursday. Northerners should also not be surprised to find the first frost of the season on their windscreens on Thursday morning, forecasters said. It comes after huge downpours Wednesday morning brought September's stint of Indian summer sunshine to an abrupt end. After a cold night, the first frost of the season is set to arrive tomorrow morning in the north, Mr Morgan added. More downpours and thunderstorms are expected to lash the UK this weekend before what could be the coldest Bank Holiday Monday on record. The miserable weather ahead comes after torrential rain and flooding brought traffic mayhem to much of the country on Thursday, following the passing of Storm Francis. Forecasters expect the picture to improve as the weekend arrives but said it would remain “quite chilly” for this time of year, particularly in the north. 
Heavy showers on Thursday brought major problems on the roads, with flash floods reported in parts of Surrey. This created difficult driving conditions and road closures, while Belmont railway station was forced to shut. The Met Office has issued weather warnings as downpours are likely to persist overnight, which could bring localized flooding and travel disruption. 
A yellow warning for heavy rain has been placed over north-east England which is expected to last until 10am on Friday. Meanwhile, thunderstorms are forecast in parts of southern England and South Wales between 11am and 8pm. Ms Salter said: "There will be quite heavy, isolated downpours and there is potential for flash flooding. There are a lot of people on holiday in the UK at the moment, going camping and on walking breaks, many in coastal locations where the winds are likely to be stronger, so it is worth checking on the Met Office website ahead of time. 
The rain is expected to be heaviest in Northern Ireland and south-west Scotland where up to 90mm in total could fall as the storm moves from west to east. 
Storm Francis is expected to clear by Wednesday lunchtime, leaving a brighter and more settled outlook for the remainder of the day, the Met Office said. It added that the bank holiday weekend would likely be a mixture of sunshine and some scattered showers across the country. 
Spain's government has declared eight regions, including the capital Madrid, as disaster zones following the snowfall and cold temperatures brought by Storm Filomena. The Council of Ministers announced on Tuesday that the community of Madrid, Andalusia, Aragon, Asturias, Castile-La Mancha, Castile and Leon, Navarre, and La Rioja were considered "areas seriously affected by a Civil Protection Emergency". The announcement means emergency subsidies and other support measures will be provided to the communities. The city's government has estimated that Filomena caused at least 1.4 billion euros in damage, a figure disputed by opposition parties. Meanwhile, refuse collection trucks took several days to clear the streets of rubbish after the storm, leaving waste piled up throughout the city, overflowing public and household bins. 
A cleanup effort involving thousands of police, firefighters, and military personnel has been underway in Madrid, as public transport has resumed and schools also due to reopen this week. Spain's Interior Ministry has stated that a full assessment of the effects of the storm was still being carried out alongside government delegations, autonomous communities, and local bodies affected. But the emergency declaration will provide financial aid and compensation for material damage to homes, as well as to industrial and commercial services. The announcement also came as the Madrid regional government warned that further rains in the region on Wednesday were likely to bring floods. "The rains forecast, although moderate, may cause flooding when all the frozen snow begins to melt," the regional government said in a statement, adding that "intense" wind temperatures in the capital could reach 40 km/h. "This decision is intended to warn the various administrations as well as citizens who may be affected". 
On Saturday, the Community of Madrid began asking town councils and road maintenance services to clear drains and sewers to allow thawed water to flow from the streets. Spain's Ecology Minister Teresa Ribera also stated that the country's Civil Protection agency will be "very attentive" to the flow of the rivers in the area amid the risk of flooding. 
Heavy rain in Europe has brought death and destruction. The toll in Switzerland, France and Italy has risen to one dozen since mid-October. Genoa was one of the regions hit worst, RAI2 reported. Northern Italy’s Piedmont, Lombardy and Liguria regions were affected the worst in northern Italy by rivers overflowing. The Po burst its banks, RAI1 reported. In France, rain-swelled rivers carried away vehicles in several places in the south. 
The force of the precipitation was attributed to unusually high temperatures in the Mediterranean, the sort of phenomenon which will require adapting to, France2 reported, in Britain. The state of NY had its first major snow storm early, with loss of life. It came just a few days after the agreement of the US and China to make reductions in their emissions of gases that affect our climate, Spanish TVE reported. Thousands in Nova Scotia woke up Easter Sunday to power outages after freezing rain, heavy rainfall and strong winds moved through the province. 
Environment Canada had issued warnings for eastern parts of the province, including freezing rain warnings for Inverness, Colchester, Antigonish and Halifax Metro counties. Most of the outages reported by Nova Scotia Power were on Cape Breton, where ice buildup on trees and power lines has caused havoc. 
Police in Halifax were warning drivers to be cautious of slippery driving conditions. 
Heavy rain is expected to hit Nova Scotia and New Brunswick throughout Easter weekend. Environment Canada has issued rainfall weather statements and warnings for parts of the region. Coastal Nova Scotia is expected to get prolonged periods of heavy rain, starting Thursday to at least Saturday afternoon. “Rain at times heavy will likely begin in southwestern Nova Scotia Thursday morning and then spread eastward reaching eastern Nova Scotia by Thursday evening,” said Environment Canada. According to the weather agency, total rainfall may exceed 50 millimeters. New Brunswick is expected to get more severe weather, with a warning issued for southwestern parts of the province. “A slow-moving low-pressure system is expected to bring rain to New Brunswick on Thursday and continuing into Friday,” said Environment Canada. 
Rainfall is expected to be between 30 and 40 millimeters, but is likely to exceed 50. “Heavy downpours can cause flash floods and water pooling on roads,” the agency said. Western New Brunswick can expect lower amounts of rainfall, under 50 millimeters, but areas along the Fundy coast will exceed that. “Rain at times heavy will begin early Thursday morning across most of western and southern New Brunswick and will gradually end on Friday.” Cities across Saskatchewan are gearing up for potential wet, snowy and icy driving conditions. Most regions in the province are either under a wind warning or a winter storm warning as of Wednesday morning. Environment Canada says strong winds with severe and damaging gusts are expected in southern regions. 
Regina is expected to see a mix of freezing rain and snowfall into Thursday afternoon, with the City of Regina putting the focus on keeping the roads safe. “Sander trucks will continuously monitor and apply sand and salt to the Category 1-4 road network which includes major roadways, hospital and transit routes, commercial areas and areas near schools, as needed,” the City of Regina said in a press release issued on Tuesday. “Residents are encouraged to take extra caution when driving. Slow down and be safe. Plan your route by knowing the road categories.” If it snows more than five centimeters in Regina, the city says plows would begin work on roads that include expressways, arterials and hospital routes. Residents are being told to keep their sidewalks and driveways safe. During these types of weather conditions, the city said its services may be delayed such as recycling and garbage pickup and transit schedules. The city declared that snow routes are in effect, meaning there is no on-street parking along the identified routes for a 24-hour period. Regina police reported seven collisions between 11:29 a.m. to 1:01 p.m., none of which, resulted in injury. The same message is being relayed in Saskatoon as it expects severe winds for both Wednesday and Thursday along with possible freezing rain and snow. As usual, the initial response will focus on treating priority (highest traffic) streets and access to emergency services. Intersections, bridges and school zones are also high priority,” the City of Saskatoon said in a release on Tuesday. “Sanding and salting will be carried out as needed. Crews are prepared with 15 graders, 10 front plows with sanders, four underbelly plows, 20 sanders and 11 sidewalk plows and numerous other pieces of equipment such as loaders, dozers and snow blowers.” The City of Saskatoon said snowplows and graders will also be out moving snow off roadways if necessary and is advising drivers to stay off the roads if possible. “Drivers that do venture out should be prepared for icy roads, snow accumulation and reduced visibility due to blowing snow and drifting,” the City of Saskatoon said. “A reminder to keep an eye out for snow equipment, stay at least 2-3 vehicle lengths behind and be prepared to stop quickly.” Saskatoon Transit is operating as regularly scheduled. As of 11:30 a.m. Wednesday, Saskatoon police reported collisions on College Drive and McOrmond Drive, Central Avenue and Fedoruk Drive, and Circle Drive and Clarence Avenue. None of the collisions are believed to have resulted in any serious injuries, police say. In Prince Albert, weather conditions caused the city to close all of its facilities including City Hall, Municipal Service Centre, Old City Yards, the Arts Centre, the Alfred Jenkins Field House, arenas, Frank J. Dunn Pool, Little Red River Park and the landfill. Crews are currently out sanding roadways beginning with main streets and known hotspots. 
Environment Canada says freezing drizzle Tuesday could cause some issues in the London area. Tuesday morning, the national weather agency issued a freezing drizzle advisory for London, Parkhill, and eastern Middlesex County. Forecasters say freezing drizzle has already been observed Tuesday morning, and there have been reports of ice on the roads and sidewalks in the region. 
Forecasters say the drizzle may be mixed with light snow at times, and is expected to end later Tuesday morning. They add there is potential for the freezing drizzle to return Tuesday evening. Motorists are asked to take extra care as highways, roads, walkways and parking lots may become icy and slippery. 
Record-breaking rain-soaked Ottawa on Friday, and more rain is in the forecast through the weekend. Friday's official rainfall total at the Ottawa Airport was 30.9 mm, setting a record for rainiest March 26 in Ottawa history. The previous record was 13.2 mm, set back in 1953. 
A special weather statement was issued for Ottawa on Friday, calling for 20 to 40 mm of rain. The forecast calls for a mostly cloudy night. A low of -1 C. Saturday will be a mix of sun and clouds, a high of 11C, chance of showers later in the day. Sunday will be much like today, rainy and cloudy, a high of 9C. The normal temperatures for this time of year are a high of 6C, and a low of -4C. While the rain is helping to melt away the last of the snow, gardening experts say it's too soon to begin planting your garden. "Seems like we're about three weeks ahead of schedule," said Kennedy Johnston, owner of Peter Knipple Nursery. Johnston says start planning to plant the May long weekend. "But as long as we're not going to have frost, you could theoretically plant." While you wait for the arrival of gardening season, Johnston says you can get seeds growing in your home for now. "Once you can work the ground though, you can plant or you can move plants if you need to. Things that are dormant, so plants that haven’t started to bud-out yet," says Johnston." Typically, the big planting weekend is the May long weekend, so we are still almost two months out from that." Heavy rain across Appalachia has led to water rescues, mudslides, road closures and power outages, officials said. In Kentucky, officials in Magoffin and Pike counties declared a state of emergency Sunday due to damage from the flooding and some evacuations took place including at Salyersville Nursing and Rehabilitation. “While we do not have any water in the facility at this time and it is still accessible, due to the risk of flooding we made the decision to relocate," he said. 
Multiple water rescues were reported in Kentucky, Tennessee and West Virginia authorities said. In Kentucky, Wolfe County Sheriff Chris Carson rescued four adults and a toddler from a vehicle trapped in flood water by using a tractor with a front-end loader, according to the sheriff’s Facebook page. Carson was able to get the people in the bucket and then to safety, the post said. In Tennessee, four adults and an infant were rescued from a partially submerged truck that slid off a water-covered bridge, news outlets reported. In addition, a child was injured in Nashville when he tripped over a downed power line while playing outside, officials said. High water and mudslides blocked roadways in West Virginia and eastern Kentucky, where flood warnings remained in effect Monday morning, the National Weather Service said. In West Virginia, flooding hit some areas that were ravaged by power outages from ice storms last month. 
Floodwaters inundated roads in more than a dozen counties, highways officials said. The National Guard assisted with some evacuations Sunday night in the Dunlow area of Wayne County. In Roane County, residents in one public service district were asked to conserve drinking water after a flooded water plant broke down and was inaccessible. The Clay Roane Public Service District said in a social media post that water tanks were dangerously low and cannot be refilled until the floodwaters recede and the problem is repaired. 
A tiny community in western Germany was cut off Wednesday by the flooded Rhine River, while authorities cautioned that continued rain and melting snow could cause further problems in many regions In Rees-Grietherort, the rising waters of the Rhine flooded the only access road to the community located between it and a smaller river, effectively cutting off the 100 residents, the dpa news agency reported. Due to its location, local authorities said the residents are relatively used to such inconveniences and officials employed a small fire department boat to ferry people in and out three times a day. The German Weather Service was warning that conditions were not likely to improve in many places until the weekend. 
Shipping traffic on the Rhine in the Cologne area has been stopped, even though the crest of the river has not quite reached the height where boats can no longer safely pass under bridges, authorities said. There were also flood warnings for multiple other rivers, primarily in western and southern Germany. 
Crews worked Monday to determine when they can rebuild a section of scenic roadway near Big Sur after it collapsed in torrential rain last week, but the damage was not as bad as from a 2017 landslide that cut off the tourist destination along the central California coast for over a year, officials said. The intense rainstorms created a debris flow that overwhelmed water drains, flowed across Highway 1 and eroded it, washing away a 150-foot (46-meter) chunk of roadway, the state Department of Transportation said. The section that crumbled in Monterey County is about 30 miles (48 kilometers) south of a famous bridge that's frequently photographed by tourists and was featured in the opening credits of HBO's “Big Little Lies." The winding highway is a popular driving route renowned for its ocean views. The road also shut down for weeks last year because of a wildfire that started in Big Sur in August and was finally contained on Dec. 31. Following the storm last week, crews were still working to clear debris piles, remove slides, clear and repair drainage systems, and stabilize damaged sections of Highway 1 at about 60 places, Caltrans said. The agency initially closed 44 miles (71 kilometers) of the road to allow people to evacuate but said the closures would be reduced to about 23 miles (37 kilometers) Monday evening. Drone video of the highway shows a huge chasm and both northbound and southbound lanes missing. There was no estimate on when the road would reopen, Caltrans said. But the rain damage is not as extensive as when heavy rains in 2017 unleashed a landslide on the highway and caused a bridge to crumble, blocking passage through the area for over a year, said Big Sur Chamber of Commerce President Kirk Gafill, owner of the historic Nepenthe Restaurant that's been serving Big Sur since 1949. “In 2017, it was a much bigger slide, it was the biggest slide in county history. This is a pretty typical slip out here,” Gafill said. He said the washout will impact some businesses and residents and force those traveling from Southern California to take a detour that will add about two hours to their trip. But he said the bulk of Big Sur's businesses and residents won't be largely affected because about 60% of visitors travel to the coastal communities known for luxury spas, posh hotels and scenic retreats from Northern California. 
More storms, rain and flooding are expected Monday, continuing a wet week in Dallas-Fort Worth. After nearly an inch-and-a-half of rain Sunday, more overnight storms brought more rain Monday morning. The rain should continue through the rest of the week, with scattered thunderstorms expected to bring as much as six additional inches of rain to the region. With soil already saturated from weekend rain, more storms will likely cause flooding in roadways, creeks and rivers. 
The National Weather Service has issued a flash flood watch through Wednesday morning, with flooding already reported in many low-lying areas and roadways across Dallas-Fort Worth. Expect rain to continue several times a day through the weekend before skies clear up early next week. The main threat from the week’s storms, the weather service said, should be excessive rain, hail and damaging winds. 
A tornado warning was issued in Richardson Wednesday with severe winds causing some damage to homes in North Dallas. According to KXAS-TV (NBC5), some breaks in the rain could bring brief bouts of sunshine. High temperatures should be in the high 70s or low 80s through the week. Torrential rains triggered a landslide on Indonesia’s main island of Java killing at least two people and leaving 16 others missing, as emergency personnel digging with their bare hands and farm tools desperately sought to unearth more victims on Monday, officials said. 
Hundreds of rescuers, including soldiers, police and volunteers, took part in the search for the missing in the village district to search for possible victims, said National Disaster Mitigation Agency spokesperson. The mud that rolled from the surrounding hills late Sunday struck at least eight houses, leaving 21 people buried under tons of mud. Fourteen other people were injured. Jati said rescuers retrieved two bodies and pulled three injured people from the mud and rushed them to a hospital. Rescue personnel were searching for the 16 villagers still missing. Jati said a lack of heavy equipment that was unable to reach the village and bad weather were hampering the search efforts. Overnight rains also caused more rivers to burst their banks in other districts of the province on Monday, sending nearly 1 meter (about 3 feet) of muddy waters into more residential areas, forcing hundreds of people to flee from their submerged homes, Jati said. Severe flooding was also reported in many other provinces in the vast archipelago nation over the past few days. 
Seasonal downpours cause frequent landslides and floods each year in Indonesia, a chain of 17,000 islands where millions of people live in mountainous areas or near fertile flood plains. Emergency services across England and Wales saw a surge in calls overnight as parts of the UK were battered by heavy rains, causing flooding in some areas. By 5am on Thursday morning, the Environment Agency (EA) had been forced to issue more than 90 flood warnings for England. The EA issued at least 16 warnings in relation to the River Severn on the Welsh Border alone, while part of the Great River Ouse and the Chediston watercourse in Suffolk also received notices. Meanwhile, Natural Resources Wales has issued a further nine flood warnings. The EA has also issued nearly 150 flood alerts, urging residents to be prepared for the possibility of flooding. In the wake of the downpour, emergency services in England and Wales have received an onslaught of requests for help. In a tweet, the Nottinghamshire Police said their emergency services were called late Wednesday night over reports of a landslide near a residential area by a former quarry. Police told PA a “small number” of properties had to be evacuated while the situation was closely monitored. Meanwhile, the BBC reported that the South Wales Fire and Rescue Service had taken at least 500 calls for assistance on Wednesday as heavy rains fell. 
The Northampton shire Fire and Rescue Service said they had taken more than 250 flood calls, with several homes affected by flooding and multiple people having to be rescued from their vehicles. Much of the heavy rainfall has cleared overnight. However, some residents will still have to contend with some of the damage caused by the downpour. Wednesday will see a mild start in the south, with temperatures around 11C due to heavy cloud cover. Meanwhile northern England, Scotland and Northern Ireland will see clearer skies and a chance of frost. Temperatures here will hover around 0C. A brisk wind will blow rain into the south. This will grow heavier as the day goes on, particularly in Wales, East Anglia, the Midlands and the southwest and has prompted the Met Office to issue weather warnings. Up to 70mm of rain could fall in these areas Wednesday onto already saturated ground. 
A yellow warning for rain has been put in place from 6am on Wednesday and will last until 6am on Thursday. The Met Office suggests that the rain could lead to travel disruption and flooding in places. They also say that “there is a small chance that homes and businesses could be flooded.” Aiden McGivern from the Met Office suggested that winds could reach “gale force” around coasts in the southwest and parts of Wales. 
Northern parts of the UK will see much brighter skies although there will be a few showers in northeast England and northern Scotland. On Wednesday night, a northerly wind will help push the rain away and leave most of the UK with much lower temperatures but with clear skies in time for Christmas. Christmas Eve will see a frosty start for most and further north some could even see snow showers. Generally bright for the south of England. There will be a sunny morning for most on Christmas Day, before rain returns for the weekend. Beaches and coronavirus testing sites were closed, public transportation shut down and some evacuations in place early Monday after Tropical Storm Eta made landfall in the Florida Keys, bringing heavy rains to already flooded city streets after leaving scores of dead and over 100 missing in Mexico and Central America. 
Eta made landfall late Sunday on Lower Matecumbe Key, Florida. The system's slow speed and heavy rains posed and enormous threat to South Florida, an area already drenched from more than 14 inches of rain last month. Eta could dump an additional 6 to 12 inches, forecasters said. Miami-Dade County Mayor Carlos Gimenez said he was in frequent contact with county water officials about the struggle to drain the flooded waters, which has stalled vehicles, whitewashed some intersections and even crept into some homes. 
On Sunday night, authorities in Lauderhill, Florida, responded to a report of a car that had driven into a canal. Photos taken by fire units on the scene about 30 miles (48 kilometers) north of Miami showed rescuers searching high waters near a parking lot. Firefighters pulled one person from a car and took the patient to a hospital in critical condition, according to a statement from Lauderhill Fire. Responders were continuing to search for others. 
The U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami declared hurricane and storm surge warnings for the Keys from Ocean Reef to the Dry Tortugas, including Florida Bay. Eta had maximum sustained winds of 65 mph (100 kph) early Monday and was centered about 25 miles (40 kilometers) northwest of Marathon, Florida, and 40 miles (80 kilometers) northeast of Key West. It was moving west-northwest at 14 mph (22 kph). On the forecast track, Eta was expected to move out into the southeastern Gulf of Mexico and intensify into a hurricane late Monday or Tuesday. 
In the Florida Keys, the mayor ordered mandatory evacuations for mobile home parks, campgrounds and RV parks and those in low-lying areas. Several schools’ districts closed, saying the roads were already too flooded and the winds could be too gusty for buses to transport students. Several shelters also opened in Miami and the Florida Keys. “Please take this storm seriously,” urged Palm Beach County Emergency Management Director Bill Johnson. “Please don’t drive through flooded roadways.” The storm swelled rivers and flooded coastal zones in Cuba, where 25,000 had been evacuated. But there were no reports of deaths. 
Authorities in Guatemala on Sunday raised the known death toll there to 27 from 15 and said more than 100 were missing, many of them in the landslide in San Cristobal Verapaz. Local officials in Honduras reported 21 dead, though the national disaster agency had confirmed only eight. Eta initially hit Nicaragua as a Category 4 hurricane, and authorities from Panama to Mexico were still surveying the damages following days of torrential rains during the week. In Guatemala, search teams first had to overcome multiple landslides and deep mud just to reach the site where officials have estimated some 150 homes were devastated. In the worst-hit village, Quejá, at least five bodies have been pulled from the mud. The Indigenous community of about 1,200 residents consisted of simple homes of wood and tin roofs clinging to the mountainside. 
Rescue workers used a helicopter to evacuate survivor Emilio Caal, who said he lost as many as 40 family members and relatives. Caal, 65, suffered a dislocated shoulder when the landslide sent rocks, trees and earth hurtling onto the home where he was about to sit down to lunch with his wife and grandchildren. Caal said he was blown several yards (meters) by the force of the slide, and that none of the others were able to get out. “My wife is dead, my grandchildren are dead,” said Caal from a nearby hospital. Firefighters’ spokesman Ruben Tellez said at least one additional person died in Guatemala on Sunday when a small plane went down while carrying emergency supplies to the stricken area. In neighboring Honduras, 68-year-old María Elena Mejía Guadron died when the brown waters of the Chamelecon river poured into San Pedro Sula’s Planeta neighborhood before dawn Thursday. 
In southern Mexico, across the border from Guatemala, 20 people died as heavy rains attributed to Eta caused mudslides and swelled streams and rivers, according to Chiapas state civil defense official Elías Morales Rodríguez. The worst incident in Mexico occurred in the mountain township of Chenalho, where 10 people were swept away by a rain-swollen stream; their bodies were later found downstream. Flooding in the neighboring state of Tabasco was so bad that President Andrés Manuel López Obrador cut short a trip to western Mexico and was flying to Tabasco, his home state, to oversee relief efforts. Hurricane Eta’s arrival in northeast Nicaragua Tuesday followed days of drenching rain as it crawled toward shore. Its slow, meandering path north through Honduras pushed rivers over their banks.