UK could be blanketed with up to seven inches of snow in the coming days, while a band of heavy rain expected to trigger flooding. 
Yellow weather warnings for “heavy snow” have been issued by the Met Office, covering much of Scotland and parts of northern England. Forecasters said snowy conditions could bring “significant” disruption to travel across central and northern Scotland. 
An alert is in place there from 4am on Thursday until 9am on Friday. Another warning of heavy snow for parts of England, covering north of Lancaster, west of Newcastle and running up to the Scottish border, is in place until 3pm on Thursday. Meanwhile, most of Northern Ireland and areas in north-west England could see flooding as 20-30mm of rainfall is predicted from Wednesday evening. 
Yellow warning of heavy rain over Northern Ireland is due to run up to 9am on Thursday, while another warning over Liverpool, Manchester, Stoke and Preston in England is in place for the whole day. People living in the affected areas should expect disruption to public transport, delays on the roads and some flooding of homes and businesses, the Met Office said. However, temperatures are set to increase in most areas as milder air moves in from the Atlantic, causing a “battleground” as it combines with colder air in the north. 
Parts of southern England and Wales could see “spring-like” weather, with temperatures rising as high as 14C. It comes after large swathes of the UK were left blanketed in snow last weekend. The Met Office said the UK could be experiencing its snowiest spell since late January 2019, when 20 weather stations in England recorded accumulations of 5cm or more for three days consecutively. Tom Morgan, a Met Office forecaster, said: “More milder conditions are set to move in from the Atlantic on Wednesday evening and will lead to a sort of battleground with the cold air in the north. This will cause some of the rain and snow which will impact areas across northern England and Scotland. Northern Ireland will see around 30mm of rainfall, while parts of north-west England could experience flooding, as the ground is already very saturated and the rivers are higher than usual. 
The Environment Agency had 13 flood warnings in place late on Wednesday evening, stretching from the Midlands to the North East, meaning immediate action is required. Mr Morgan said people in Scotland and in areas around the Pennines will see heavy snowfall lasting until Friday. He added: “Those travelling in snowy conditions should be wary of disruption to the roads and public transport, as much as 20cm could fall in the worst affected areas so people should be careful. 
Temperatures will be close to 0C in the coldest regions, while parts of southern England and Wales could reach spring-like temperatures, even as high as 14C. “So, there’s quite a disparity depending on where you live”. Snow swept across London on Sunday as forecasters warned of hazardous conditions. Many took to social media to share pictures of heavy snowfall outside their homes as the capital was gripped by a cold snap from Iceland and the Arctic. Overnight, the capital shivered in temperatures as low as -3C. 
A Transport for London roadside CCTV camera was among the first to capture a blizzard on the A4 Sipson Road near Heathrow. By 11am, heavy snow was falling as far east as Plumstead, in Greenwich. The hashtag “Narnia” was trending on social media as people shared images of their snowy neighborhoods. 
Mayor of London Sadiq Khan was also out enjoying the weather. He posted a video of his family’s golden retriever Luna spinning around the garden as the snow fell. One photo posted online showed a H13 bus struggling to make its journey through snow in Ruislip and a blanket over Clapham Common. Highways England warned that the snow had caused collisions on the M3, M27 and M25. The agency urged drivers to only travel if absolutely necessary. 
The Met Office was ready to put in place five new weather warnings for snow and ice going into the final week of January. By 2pm, however, the snowfall had turned to drizzle in many parts of the capital, melting most of what was lying on the pavements and parks. In flood-hit parts of the country, further heavy rainfall, which caused severe flooding in the wake of Storm Christoph, is not forecast until next Wednesday - but plummeting temperatures are expected. 
Forecasters predicted the snow in would continue to fall in London until at least the middle of Sunday afternoon. Monday is expected to be dry and sunny - but the Met Office is warning of icy conditions with temperatures set to stay as low as 4C. Temperatures across the whole of the UK dropped below freezing overnight, with the coldest temperatures in the Scottish Highlands at an icy -10C. Despite people being urged to heed flood warnings into the weekend, Mr Bowles said they were “gradually reducing” and that more heavy rain was not expected until Wednesday night or Thursday. 
A persistent blizzard blanketed large parts of Spain with an unusual amount of snow on Saturday, killing at least four people and leaving thousands trapped in cars or at train stations and airports that suspended all services. The national weather agency reported that as of 7 am CET, the snowfall in Madrid reached a level unseen in half a century. More than 50 centimeters (20 inches) of snow fell in the Spanish capital, according to the weather agency AEMET. 
More than half of Spain’s provinces remained under severe weather alerts for Storm Filomena on Saturday evening, seven of them at the highest level of warning. In Madrid, authorities activated a red alert for the first time since the system was adopted four decades ago and called in the military to rescue people from vehicles trapped on everything from small roads to the city’s major thoroughfares. As of Saturday evening, Spanish security services had rescued over 1,500 people who were trapped in vehicles, Interior Minister Fernando Grande-Marlaska said. AEMET had warned that some regions would be receiving more than 24 hours of continuous snowfall due to the odd combination of a cold air mass stagnant over the Iberian Peninsula and the arrival of the warmer Storm Filomena from the south. The storm is expected to be followed by a severe drop in temperatures in the coming days, the agency said. 
Transport Minster José Luis Ábalos warned that "snow is going to turn into ice and we will enter a situation perhaps more dangerous than what we have at the moment." A heavy winter storm has left around 50 people trapped at a mountain pass in Norway. Cars are buried in 2-3 meters of snow and the road is closed and impassable due to the weather. The travelers are inside and safe but need to wait for the weather to calm down and the roads to be cleared. Freak ice storms have left 150,000 people without water and electricity in the far eastern Russian city of Vladivostok and prompted a state of emergency. The exceptional weather brought down cables and trees, with the government of the Primorsky region declaring a state of emergency. Freezing rain began pummeling the city of some 600,000 people overnight Thursday after a cyclone carrying hot air met an anticyclone carrying cold air. Photos and videos published by local authorities and on social media showed everything from apartment buildings to road signs to public transport covered in ice. Video footage from a security camera showed a man moving away from his car at the last second as he was cleaning ice from its windshield before a block came crashing down from the side of a building. 
Russia’s northernmost city, Norilsk, has been waist-deep in snow for almost a week now, exposed to blizzards and gusts of strong wind reaching up to 27 meters per second. According to local media, in the past two months about 400 thousand tons of snow were removed from the Siberian city located 300 kilometers (186 miles) north of the Arctic Circle. 
The first major snowstorm of the season left the northeast US blanketed in snow, setting records in some areas. Nearly a meter of snow was dumped on Binghamton, New York, as of Thursday morning. A National Weather Service spokesperson said the storm sets a new two-day snowfall record. The previous record was recorded in March 2017 with 90 centimeters falling. Hazardous road conditions were reported in multiple states, causing dozens of crashes in New Hampshire, Connecticut and eastern New York. The storm came at a critical time of the coronavirus pandemic, though officials said they didn't expect the winter blast to disrupt vaccine distribution. COVID-19 vaccines started being given to frontline health care workers earlier this week. 
Weather officials in Japan warned that there will be more heavy snow this weekend, mainly in the mountainous areas of Hokkaido, Hokuriku and Kanto-Koshin regions. 
The record snowfall this week in Niigata and neighboring Gunma was brought by a strong cold air mass. More than 2,000 vehicles were stranded for many hours on an expressway. Snowfall is expected to intensify in some areas on Sunday. About 100 centimeters of snowfall is expected in Niigata, 80 centimeters in the Kanto-Koshin region, 70 centimeters in Nagano, 60 centimeters in Tohoku, 50 centimeters in the Hokuriku region and 40 centimeters in Hokkaido through Sunday morning. This is expected to then increase through Monday morning. A type of algae usually found in Greenland has started to grow in northern Italy - and it’s turning the glaciers pink. Despite its rosy appearance, pink snow isn’t good news on the climate change front. Usually, ice reflects over 80 per cent of the sun’s radiation back into the atmosphere. As the ice changes color, it loses the ability to reflect heat meaning the glaciers are starting to melt faster. 
The Presena glacier, near Pellizzano in Italy, is often called the “giant of the alps” and sits 3,069 meters above sea level. It has been described as a “paradise for all those who love nature, history and mountain sports.” Due to rising global temperatures melting ice on the mountains, the local ski resort Pontedilegno-Tonale initiated a conservation project in 2008. They use enormous pieces of geotextile fabric to cover up the glaciers all summer, keeping them cold and protecting from melting. However, despite their best efforts, the glacier now faces a new threat in the form of algae. According to Biagio Di Mauro of Italy’s National Research Council, the pink snow is likely caused by an organism which thrives in Greenland’s ‘Dark Zone’. 
This is an area where ice is also melting, causing a widespread darkening along the western margin of the ice sheet. “The alga is not dangerous, it is a natural phenomenon that occurs during the spring and summer periods in the middle latitudes but also at the Poles,” Di Mauro told the Guardian in an interview. 
Last year, a study estimated that two-thirds of glacier ice in the Alps will melt by 2100. The research, published in the journal The Cryosphere, warned that half of the ice on the mountain chain’s 4,000 glaciers will be gone by 2050, and two thirds will have melted by 2100, due to damaging effects of worldwide carbon emissions. Unsteady glaciers also pose a threat to Alpine towns and tourist areas. Scientists have developed “an intimate understanding of how glaciers behave”, Fabian Walter, a seismic glaciologist at ETH Zurich told the New York Times in 2019. But there is still “a lot we don’t understand about how, why or when a particular body of ice might collapse,” he says. “With climate change, the landscape is evolving in ways that are difficult to anticipate.” Significantly reducing our reliance on fossil fuels is the best way to stop ice from melting in places like the Alps and the Arctic. 
A 2019 study found that emissions generated from burning fossil fuels make up the biggest cause of ice melting in the Arctic, due to an accumulation of “black carbon”. According to the World Resources Institute (WRI), the most effective ways to transition to a cleaner, greener world include “putting a price on carbon” so that fossil fuel production isn’t subsidized. The institute also recommends that we invest more in energy efficient buildings, improve access to electricity all over the world and create the conditions for phasing out coal altogether. This kind of bold climate action could deliver at least $26 trillion in economic benefits through 2030, claims the WRI. 
A persistent blizzard has blanketed large parts of Spain with 50-year record levels of snow, halting traffic and leaving thousands trapped in cars or in train stations and airports that had suspended all services as the snow kept falling on Saturday. The first official victims of Storm Filomena were a man and woman whose bodies were recovered by the Andalucía regional emergency service after their car was washed away by a flooded river near the town of Fuengirola. 
Ten provinces of central Spain were on their highest level of alert, including the capital, Madrid, where authorities activated the red warning for the first time and called in the military to rescue people from vehicles trapped on everything from small roads to the city's major thoroughfares. Sandra Morena, who became trapped late on Friday as she commuted to her night shift as a security guard in a shopping center, arrived home, on foot, after an army emergency unit helped her out on Saturday morning. "It usually takes me 15 minutes but this time it has been 12 hours freezing, without food or water, crying with other people because we didn't know how were we going to get out of there," said Morena, 22. "Snow can be very beautiful but spending the night trapped in a car because of it is no fun," she added. 
The national AEMET weather agency had warned that some regions would be receiving more than 24 hours of continuous snowfall due to the odd combination of a cold air mass stagnant over the Iberian Peninsula and the arrival of the warmer Storm Filomena from the south. Forecasts of up to 20cm of snow were dwarfed by the build-up of over 50cm even in the urban center of Madrid. By 7 am CET on Saturday, AEMET had recorded a 24-hour snowfall of 33 liters per square meter in Madrid, something not seen since 1971. The storm is expected to move northeast throughout Saturday, the agency said. Carlos Novillo, head of the Madrid emergency agency, said that more than 1,000 vehicles had become trapped, mostly on the city's ring road and the main motorway that leads from the capital to the south, toward the Castilla La Mancha and Andalucia regions. "The situation remains of high risk. This is a very complex phenomenon and a critical situation," Novillo said on Saturday morning in a message posted on social media. "We ask all those who remain trapped to be patient, we will get to you," he added. Airport operator AENA said that the Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas International Airport, the main gateway in and out of the country, would remain closed throughout the day after the blizzard bested machines and workers trying to keep the runways clear of snow. All trains into and out of Madrid, both commuter routes and long-distance passenger trains, as well as railway lines between the south and the northeast of the country, were suspended, railway operator Renfe said. 
The storm had caused serious disruptions or closed altogether over 430 roads by Saturday morning, according to Spain’s transit authorities, which urged people to stay indoors and avoid all non-essential travel. The wintry weather even halted the country's soccer league, with some of the La Liga top teams unable to travel for games. 
Saturday’s match between Spanish league leader Atlético Madrid and Athletic Bilbao was postponed after the plane carrying Bilbao’s team on Friday was unable to land in the capital and had to turn around. The regions of Castilla La Mancha and Madrid, home to 8.6 million people altogether, announced that schools would be closed at least on Monday and Tuesday. The blizzard also yielded unusual images for many Madrileños, including a few brave people heading out with their ski gear on the Spanish capital’s main commercial avenue and in the central Puerta del Sol square, and even a dog sledge that was seen on videos widely circulated on social media. 
Madrid on Sunday began working to clear snow from an unprecedented blizzard carried by Storm Filomena, which hit the Spanish capital on Friday and Saturday. The city's Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas International Airport remained closed on Sunday, while train lines traversing the capital were shut down, and over 150 roads were unusable. In the city center, street cleaners worked to clear snow from busy pedestrian areas and footpaths. The storm was described by Madrid's mayor as the worst in 80 years. While the storm lost its strength as it moved eastward, Spanish authorities urged people to remain at home to limit the risk of falls on icy streets ahead of a severe drop in temperatures in the coming days. 
Madrid is trying to get back on its feet after a 50-year record snowfall that paralyzed large parts of central Spain over the weekend. It has now led to icy weather that is hampering the rollout of the much-needed vaccination against the coronavirus. Storm Filomena has lost much of its potency and is moving eastwards, but weather experts say the freezing temperatures will keep on falling into minus figures for several days. Spain was brought to a standstill on Saturday after record-setting snowfalls blanketed much of the country, bringing transport links grinding to a halt. With a sharp drop in temperatures on Monday and frost freezing much of the snow, which reached more than 50 centimeters (20 inches) in some urban areas, authorities are calling on people to avoid all but essential trips out of their homes. Conscious of the hazards now presented by ice, groups of local residents have been lending a hand with clearing the path to essential facilities. "We live in this neighborhood. Yesterday, we saw it on social media and all of our friends agreed to come this morning just to clear the way from the bus stop to the psychiatry building of the Gregorio Marañón Hospital," explained psychologist Rocío Sedano. "We want people to be able to walk safely, that they're able to walk without ice and we do our best to make things as safe as possible." The secretary of a local neighborhood association, Félix Sánche, said it was great to be able to do something to help the health workers. "They gave a lot to us during confinement and they have been going all-out during the pandemic, so the least we can do is to lend a hand". 
The snow has turned Madrid's famous buildings and plazas into icescapes that have drawn sightseers, with many people, masked against COVID-19 and the cold, taking advantage to get some fresh air and have a little fun in the snow. The snow ploughs have been out and about making the capital's streets accessible for ambulances and emergency vehicles. Much of the city's main services remained closed on Monday, including the main wholesale market, although some supermarkets and newsstands opened for the first time in three days. Residents, some with crampons and hiking sticks, could be seen warily trying to make their way on snow hardened into ice before disappearing into subway stations. The underground train system has become the only viable way to commute to work. 
Commuter trains in Madrid and the high-speed railway between Barcelona and Madrid would resume later on Monday, the national railway company Renfe said. The airport, which had been closed since Friday evening, saw a dozen flights take off or land on Monday and was expecting to resume full operations "throughout Monday," Transport Minister José Luis Ábalos said in an interview with Spain’s TVE. But a new batch of 350,000 doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine that Spain was expecting to receive on Monday at Madrid Barajas airport had to be diverted to the northern city of Vitoria, where a difficult effort to distribute it throughout the rest of the country by land was underway. 
This is New York City after a winter storm hit the eastern United States. With flakes falling since Sunday evening, the Big Apple and northern New Jersey were braced for as much as 55 centimeters of snow, and parts of New England for 30.5 cm or more. “We’re looking at a long two days here,” New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said at a virtual news conference. 
The New York City area had scattered power outages by early Monday evening, affecting about 3,200 homes and businesses in the city and its New York suburbs, 4,000 in New Jersey and 1,200 in Connecticut. Hundreds of flights and many trains and were cancelled, and aboveground New York City subway service stopped at 2 pm. In recent days, a storm system blanketed parts of the Midwest, with some areas getting the most snow in several years. 
Ohio and Washington DC, also got snow. The snow and cold in Washington led President Joe Biden to postpone a visit to the State Department that had been planned for Monday. New York City is famous for many things, not least of all because it is practically guaranteed snow every winter, which producers are sure to feature in every Christmas film set in the city. Videographers and photographers recently took to the streets to capture New York’s 2021 winter. The footage shows the sheer depth of snow the city received, and locals going about their day during the whiteout. 
New York is one of the most drastic cities when it comes to the seasons. Hot, balmy summers and bitterly cold winters are the result of its location between the Hudson River and Atlantic Ocean. The east coast of America is known to be colder than the west coast of Europe, despite both coastlines fronting the Atlantic. New York City’s average winter temperature is 0 degrees Celsius, while Porto, which lies at the same latitude, averages 8 degrees. This is all to do with various technical ‘-ologies’ including climatology and meteorology, but the same phenomenon happens over the Pacific too, where winters along Asia’s northeastern coast are much colder than in the Pacific northwest. While the New York snow makes for a pretty picture, the recent storm has been classed as ‘major’, causing huge disruptions across public transport and flights, closing schools, and impacting COVID-19 vaccination sites. 
Many iconic shots of the city under snow have surfaced over the years. Of course, gaining elevation makes for a beautiful view of New York any time of year, so the classic Empire State and Rockefeller vantage points rank on the list. Central Park, the city’s green space, can feel like a snow globe under the winter sky. 
This year, cross-country skiers were spotted in the park, and people were out making snow angels in the ground at Times Square. Much of east and southeast England was covered in snow by Storm Darcy over the weekend, forcing the closure of vaccination centers in some areas. Authorities issued severe weather warnings for southern England as heavy snow and icy conditions will likely disrupt roads and railways. The cold weather is expected to last until the end of the week. In eastern Germany, 20 cm of fresh snow fell in many places overnight. 
There were massive disruptions to rush-hour traffic especially on the A4 from Thuringia to Saxony. The motorways, in particular, were jammed in many places. Some schools were closed and flights cancelled in the Magadan region of Russia on Monday due to a major storm. Heavy snowfall caused severe difficulties for traffic in the area. Numerous cars were stuck in the snow on Monday, with drivers desperately trying to dig them out. Some of the regional highways were temporary closed due to bad road conditions and a warning was issued to drivers. Rescuers were working on clearing the roads and helping those who were stranded in their cars. 
Thousands of people spent the night trapped without moving in their cars after heavy snow forced a motorway to close down in Spain’s Castile and Leon region on Saturday (January 6). Spain’s El Pais reported that between 3,500 and 4,000 cars were blocked on the AP-6 motorway to Segovia all Saturday night waiting for snow blowers to clear the way. On Sunday morning, around a thousand vehicles remained trapped in the motorway said Spain’s Directorate-General of Traffic (DGT). 
Drivers took to social media to complain about the lack of communication from authorities. Some said they had been stuck for more than 12 hours without any help or explanation. "It's 8:30 and we've been here since 7. Nobody's come, there are meters and meters of snow. We are completely trapped without knowing what's going on. It's complete chaos," said Twitter user @PaulaPgr in a video. Spanish journalist Eugenia Marcos tweeted that the snow was too deep to drive through. Around 9 on Sunday, some people started saying they could finally see the army shoveling snow out of the way. "Reinforcements have come," said Juanse R Perez on Twitter. The Military Emergencies Unit (UME) was deployed to help clear AP-6, which runs from Madrid to Spain’s northwestern region of Galicia. 
Record snowfall in Moscow on Saturday and Sunday led to the death of a least one man. More than 2,000 trees have reportedly fallen, traffic has been severely hampered traffic and airports around the city have reported severe delays. The wet snow has led to the rupture of a number of power lines in the city, and a number of tram services have been halted. Moscow municipal services are sending in 14,000 snow-clearing units. By Sunday evening, temperatures are expected to drop to -10, and snowfall is expected to become less severe. 
A winter snowstorm is sweeping across the northern US Midwest. It is being blamed for a massive chain-reaction pileup involving 16 semitrailers and 38 vehicles in Michigan. The death toll stands at two. A 33-year-old woman died after a multi-vehicle crash near Fenton, Michigan on Friday, and a man in his 60s died of a heart attack while shoveling snow in Naperville, Illinois. The storm grounded hundreds of flights as it rolled east, and dumped 23cm of snow on Chicago. Forecasters are predicting more snowfall into Sunday, although the flurries are expected to be lighter. 
Heavy snowfall in Austria and Germany resulted in the deaths of seven people, Austrian media reported on January 7, with thousands cut off in mountain regions. Bavaria in southeastern Germany received more than 60 centimeters of snow, prompting schools to cancel classes, while about 120 flights were cancelled from Munich Airport, Deutsche Welle reported. Between 50 and 80 centimeters of snow fell over areas in western Austria, resulting in roads being blocked and helicopter flights being prohibited for safety reasons. Power was lost in hundreds of houses due to the storms and, in the state of Styria in southern Austria, 2,000 people were cut off, including skiers, Die Presse reported on January 7. 
The Canadian Army will send 150 to 200 soldiers to Newfoundland and Labrador to help the province recover from a blizzard that buried the region under an unusual amount of snow, Defense Minister Harjit Sajjan announced on Sunday, January 19. The soldiers were expected in the Atlantic province to help with snow clearing and removal operations. More than 28 inches (70 centimeters) of snow fell in 24 hours on St John's, the provincial capital. The snow and snowdrifts, caused by winds of more than 60 miles per hour (100 kilometers), blocked roads and buried cars and some houses. The number of troops, both active and reserve, could reach 250 or 300 in the next few days based on need, Sajjan said. The Canadian Armed Forces will also provide two Hercules transport planes and two Griffon helicopters, the minister said during a press conference on the sidelines of a government meeting in Winnipeg. The snow clearing operations are expected to take time and could be complicated by fresh snowfall. Three people have died in strong winds, heavy snowfall and low temperatures from Storm Gloria sweep across Spain. Aemet (State Meteorological Agency) declared a red alert across 10 provinces, expecting winds of up to 130 kilometers per hour (80 mph), seven-meter (22-foot) waves and heavy snowfall. The ports of Valencia and Gandia were closed to shipping traffic as a precaution, while Alicante airport was also closed, causing the cancellation or diversion of 190 flights. 
A red weather alert has been raised in the Altiplano area in the north of Murcia, after nearly 20 centimeters of snow fell on Monday. Gloria also brought snowstorms across the north of the country. In Asturias, a man was killed after being hit by a vehicle on a snowbound road, a spokeswoman for the emergency services said. Local media reported he was struck while fitting chains to his car. The eastern seaboard of the United States is bracing itself for a great white storm forecaster are saying is of epic proportions. A meter of snow is being predicted and five eastern states have already declared a state of emergency ahead of the blizzard, Tennessee, North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania, along with Washington DC. “We’re expecting a historic snowfall in the district, I think there’s probably one other on record that we’ve had that has had a snowfall in it, one event. We’ve been told to prepare for winds of up to forty miles per hour,” said the capital’s mayor, Muriel Bowser. Shops have been doing a roaring trade in plywood panels and snow shovels as people shutter houses and businesses on the coast, and prepare for the worst. 
Transport chaos is predicted, and people are being told to make only essential journeys. As much as a third of the country could be affected by the white-out even if the coastal areas will likely get the lion’s share of the snow. The entire Czech Republic is reportedly covered with up to half a meter of snow and counting. The country is on an orange alert until at least Thursday evening, meaning snow drifts and severe blizzards are expected. 
Transport has become treacherous with several roads and train lines closed. Freight lorries are also stuck in hilly areas especially in East Bohemia. Parts of northern Hungary have been put on a yellow alert and the river Tsza froze after the sudden drop in temperature. 
In Poland, fierce winds downed power lines leaving 16000 households without electricity. Forecasters warned that as much as half a meter of snow may fall in areas close to mountains and that arctic air could plunge temperatures to as low as -17 degrees Celsius. Germany has been hit by what’s thought to be its biggest storm in ten years. Emergency service workers have described conditions as unbearable. 
The stormy weather has led to flooding along Germany’s Baltic Sea coast and caused some damage to seaside promenades. Heavy snow storms have led to dozens of crashes on northern motorways with up to nine people reported seriously injured. Icy roads have also meant long delays and serious disruption for travelers. 
A cold snap and showers have hit much of central and eastern Europe in the last few days, including much of the Balkans. Bosnia was bracing itself for a spell of extremely cold weather forecast to begin later on Thursday, with temperatures expected to remain between -11 and -26 degrees centigrade. Kosovo Meteorological Institute issued a warning to stay indoors after Kosovo was expected to be hit by a polar cyclone. 
Millions of Americans in the northeast who are planning to travel for the Thanksgiving holiday this Thursday may not only encounter busy airports and congested highways, but also a deadly storm system bringing heavy winds, rain, snow and sleet to some of the most populous metro areas in the US. With the storm gathering pace, the 43 million people who are expected to travel 50 miles or more for Thanksgiving were warned to avoid driving during the worst conditions slated for Tuesday and Wednesday. Those days fall ahead of the Thursday Thanksgiving holiday and are among the busiest days of the year for air travel. 
A powerful storm that left at least 21 people dead over the weekend and has already created a mess for air travelers in the western US, especially in Texas, is now threatening to do the same at some of the busiest and most delay-prone, US airports along the eastern seaboard, meteorologists said Monday. It forced American Airlines to cancel nearly 1,000 flights at its Dallas/Fort Worth hub Sunday and Monday. 
AA hopes to resume normal operations there by Monday afternoon, but that could be just in time for new problems to sprout in the East. The storm will bring heavy snow to interior sections of the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast, but the biggest problems for Thanksgiving fliers will likely be the windy, cloudy and rainy conditions at some the busiest US airports: Logan in Boston, JFK and La Guardia in New York, Newark International, Philadelphia International, Thurgood Marshall in Baltimore and Dulles and Reagan National in Washington. These airports usually struggle to maintain normal schedules even in modest weather conditions. A full-fledged coastal storm could bring major delays and hundreds of cancellations just as a crush of Thanksgiving fliers head to the airports. 
The storm started Thursday in the Southwest, where it killed three people in California. It then moved on to New Mexico and Texas, both of which were placed under National Weather Service winter storm warnings until Monday. Up to 11,000 people were without power in parts of Texas over the weekend, utility suppliers said. By that time, it was gathering pace and moving on from New Mexico and plotting a path through eastern Texas, southeastern Oklahoma and Arkansas. Three of the 13 people killed by the storm died in a pileup of a dozen vehicles in the Texas Panhandle, and four deaths occurred in Oklahoma. Another man was killed in flooding in Arizona. 
A second major snow storm in a week has hit the US, causing travel chaos across 1600 km stretching from Nebraska to Pennsylvania. A huge winter weather system has buried the Chicago area under 30 cm of snow, closing schools and causing 1,600 flights to be cancelled. Forecasters say the storm is particularly slow moving, leaving airports to deal with thousands of stranded and disgruntled passengers. “Trying to get back today, our flight at 1:55 was cancelled. Unfortunately, we were here quite early because of the weather, and they didn’t let us know until just now. We’re trying to see. They can’t get us back out until Tuesday,” said one traveler. Icy conditions proved particularly hazardous in Nebraska a truck driver and a 62-year-old woman died in separate traffic accidents. Parts of New England still recovering from last week’s blizzard are bracing for up to 35cm of snow forecast for Monday. In Illinois, 20,000 people were left without power. 
New York had prepared for a major storm but managed to avoid the worst. A snow storm has hit Istanbul grounding planes halting traffic and forcing the temporary closure of the Bosphorus Strait shipping channel. Turkish airlines, Europe’s fourth largest carrier has been forced to cancel more than 300 flights. Some commuters had to walk work after as much as 60 cm of snow fell in two days. The storm also stranded members of the Besiktas football club for hours. 
The Istanbul side is scheduled to play Liverpool on Thursday in England. The club said the players had finally departed from an alternative city airport. Volunteers in Texas have rescued some 4,700 sea turtles off the state’s southern coast, where a winter storm left the reptiles stunned by the cold and on the verge of death. 
Thousands of large turtles are now being housed at a convention center on South Padre Island, as locals are trying to save the cold-blooded creatures by bringing their body temperatures back from the brink. “It’s an unprecedented event,” Wendy Knight, head of Sea Turtle Inc. conservation center, told Reuters. Knight says about 100 to 500 sea turtles will typically wash up on Texas beaches due to the cold each year, but this month’s storm has taken a much greater toll on the local population. The state was hammered this week by a days-long storm that has overtaxed its power grid, leaving millions of Texans without heat, light or electricity. 
The South Padre Island Convention Center and Visitors Bureau still has heat, and thus has become a defacto warming centre for the turtles. The reptiles are being kept in kiddy pools, enclosures and anywhere else that volunteers can find space. And the turtles just keep coming in, with more than 1,000 added to the count since Wednesday. “Every 15 minutes or less there’s another truck or SUV that pulls up,” Ed Caum, executive director of the center, told the Associated Press. Cold temperatures present a major danger for the cold-blooded turtles, according to Knight. They become more lethargic as the temperature drops, and they begin to show symptoms of hypothermia as they get closer to zero. The turtles have also been packed into the Sea Turtle Inc. rescue center and SpaceX launch facilities on the island. There are no immediate warm spells on the horizon, so Knight and her collaborators are simply going to hang on and try to save as many turtles as they can. 
Most of Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland are being pounded by heavy snow and high winds Monday, creating whiteout conditions in many areas. The storm moved into the Maritimes overnight heading west to east and is forecast to continue into Newfoundland and western Nova Scotia later in the day. Environment Canada has posted winter storm warnings for much of the East Coast. 
Agency meteorologist Samantha Roch said Nova Scotia had received 25 to 35 centimeters of snow by 4 a.m. with another 10 to 15 centimeters expected in central and northern areas of the province. She said eastern Nova Scotia and Cape Breton can expect another 20 to 30 centimeters before the snow tapers off by early afternoon. P.E.I. had received about 20 centimeters, and Roch said the province could expect another 10 before the snow stops falling later in the day. With powerful winds gusting up to 80 kilometers an hour, Roch said blowing snow was reducing visibility to near zero in many areas, creating hazardous driving conditions. Much of Newfoundland has also been hit with winter storm and snowfall warnings. 
Environment Canada said some parts of the island could get anywhere from 20 to 35 centimeters of snow and winds are expected to reach up to 100 kilometers an hour. Snowy conditions could last until Tuesday in some parts of Newfoundland, the agency said. Provincial government offices in Nova Scotia were closed Monday because of the heavy snowfall. The city of Halifax closed public transit services early, at 7 p.m., on Sunday evening. Bus service in that city will be delayed until at least noon Monday. 
Most health facilities in Nova Scotia are open despite the storm, but some COVID-19 assessment centers are closed for the day or have delayed their opening. All Halifax Regional Centre for Education schools are closed as well as Dalhousie University’s Halifax and Truro campuses and St. Mary’s University. In P. E. I, classes in the province’s Public-School Branch were called off Monday. Several schools in the Newfoundland and Labrador English School District, including those in the metro St. John’s area, are also closed. And due to the adverse weather across the Cabot Strait, Marine Atlantic has cancelled its day trips from North Sydney to Port aux Basques.
An alert is in place there from 4am on Thursday until 9am on Friday. Another warning of heavy snow for parts of England, covering north of Lancaster, west of Newcastle and running up to the Scottish border, is in place until 3pm on Thursday. Meanwhile, most of Northern Ireland and areas in north-west England could see flooding as 20-30mm of rainfall is predicted from Wednesday evening.yellow warning of heavy rain over Northern Ireland is due to run up to 9am on Thursday, while another warning over Liverpool, Manchester, Stoke and Preston in England is in place for the whole day. People living in the affected areas should expect disruption to public transport, delays on the roads and some flooding of homes and businesses, the Met Office said. However, temperatures are set to increase in most areas as milder air moves in from the Atlantic, causing a “battleground” as it combines with colder air in the north. 
Parts of southern England and Wales could see “spring-like” weather, with temperatures rising as high as 14C. It comes after large swathes of the UK were left blanketed in snow last weekend. The Met Office said the UK could be experiencing its snowiest spell since late January 2019, when 20 weather stations in England recorded accumulations of 5cm or more for three days consecutively. Tom Morgan, a Met Office forecaster, said: “More milder conditions are set to move in from the Atlantic on Wednesday evening and will lead to a sort of battleground with the cold air in the north. This will cause some of the rain and snow which will impact areas across northern England and Scotland. 
Northern Ireland will see around 30mm of rainfall, while parts of north-west England could experience flooding, as the ground is already very saturated and the rivers are higher than usual. The Environment Agency had 13 flood warnings in place late on Wednesday evening, stretching from the Midlands to the North East, meaning immediate action is required. Mr Morgan said people in Scotland and in areas around the Pennines will see heavy snowfall lasting until Friday. He added: “Those travelling in snowy conditions should be wary of disruption to the roads and public transport, as much as 20cm could fall in the worst affected areas so people should be careful. 
Temperatures will be close to 0C in the coldest regions, while parts of southern England and Wales could reach spring-like temperatures, even as high as 14C. “So, there’s quite a disparity depending on where you live”. 
Snow swept across London on Sunday as forecasters warned of hazardous conditions. Many took to social media to share pictures of heavy snowfall outside their homes as the capital was gripped by a cold snap from Iceland and the Arctic. Overnight, the capital shivered in temperatures as low as -3C. A Transport for London roadside CCTV camera was among the first to capture a blizzard on the A4 Sipson Road near Heathrow. By 11am, heavy snow was falling as far east as Plumstead, in Greenwich. The hashtag “Narnia” was trending on social media as people shared images of their snowy neighborhoods. Mayor of London Sadiq Khan was also out enjoying the weather. He posted a video of his family’s golden retriever Luna spinning around the garden as the snow fell. 
One photo posted online showed a H13 bus struggling to make its journey through snow in Ruislip and a blanket over Clapham Common. Highways England warned that the snow had caused collisions on the M3, M27 and M25. The agency urged drivers to only travel if absolutely necessary. The Met Office was ready to put in place five new weather warnings for snow and ice going into the final week of January. By 2pm, however, the snowfall had turned to drizzle in many parts of the capital, melting most of what was lying on the pavements and parks. 
In flood-hit parts of the country, further heavy rainfall, which caused severe flooding in the wake of Storm Christoph, is not forecast until next Wednesday - but plummeting temperatures are expected. Forecasters predicted the snow in would continue to fall in London until at least the middle of Sunday afternoon. Monday is expected to be dry and sunny - but the Met Office is warning of icy conditions with temperatures set to stay as low as 4C. 
Temperatures across the whole of the UK dropped below freezing overnight, with the coldest temperatures in the Scottish Highlands at an icy -10C. Despite people being urged to heed flood warnings into the weekend, Mr Bowles said they were “gradually reducing” and that more heavy rain was not expected until Wednesday night or Thursday. A persistent blizzard blanketed large parts of Spain with an unusual amount of snow on Saturday, killing at least four people and leaving thousands trapped in cars or at train stations and airports that suspended all services. 
The national weather agency reported that as of 7 am CET, the snowfall in Madrid reached a level unseen in half a century. More than 50 centimeters (20 inches) of snow fell in the Spanish capital, according to the weather agency AEMET. More than half of Spain’s provinces remained under severe weather alerts for Storm Filomena on Saturday evening, seven of them at the highest level of warning. 
In Madrid, authorities activated a red alert for the first time since the system was adopted four decades ago and called in the military to rescue people from vehicles trapped on everything from small roads to the city’s major thoroughfares. As of Saturday evening, Spanish security services had rescued over 1,500 people who were trapped in vehicles, Interior Minister Fernando Grande-Marlaska said. AEMET had warned that some regions would be receiving more than 24 hours of continuous snowfall due to the odd combination of a cold air mass stagnant over the Iberian Peninsula and the arrival of the warmer Storm Filomena from the south. The storm is expected to be followed by a severe drop in temperatures in the coming days, the agency said. Transport Minster José Luis Ábalos warned that "snow is going to turn into ice and we will enter a situation perhaps more dangerous than what we have at the moment." A heavy winter storm has left around 50 people trapped at a mountain pass in Norway. Cars are buried in 2-3 meters of snow and the road is closed and impassable due to the weather. The travelers are inside and safe but need to wait for the weather to calm down and the roads to be cleared. Freak ice storms have left 150,000 people without water and electricity in the far eastern Russian city of Vladivostok and prompted a state of emergency. The exceptional weather brought down cables and trees, with the government of the Primorsky region declaring a state of emergency. Freezing rain began pummeling the city of some 600,000 people overnight Thursday after a cyclone carrying hot air met an anticyclone carrying cold air. Photos and videos published by local authorities and on social media showed everything from apartment buildings to road signs to public transport covered in ice. Video footage from a security camera showed a man moving away from his car at the last second as he was cleaning ice from its windshield before a block came crashing down from the side of a building. Russia’s northernmost city, Norilsk, has been waist-deep in snow for almost a week now, exposed to blizzards and gusts of strong wind reaching up to 27 meters per second. According to local media, in the past two months about 400 thousand tons of snow were removed from the Siberian city located 300 kilometers (186 miles) north of the Arctic Circle. The first major snowstorm of the season left the northeast US blanketed in snow, setting records in some areas. Nearly a meter of snow was dumped on Binghamton, New York, as of Thursday morning. A National Weather Service spokesperson said the storm sets a new two-day snowfall record. The previous record was recorded in March 2017 with 90 centimeters falling. Hazardous road conditions were reported in multiple states, causing dozens of crashes in New Hampshire, Connecticut and eastern New York. The storm came at a critical time of the coronavirus pandemic, though officials said they didn't expect the winter blast to disrupt vaccine distribution. COVID-19 vaccines started being given to frontline health care workers earlier this week. Weather officials in Japan warned that there will be more heavy snow this weekend, mainly in the mountainous areas of Hokkaido, Hokuriku and Kanto-Koshin regions. The record snowfall this week in Niigata and neighboring Gunma was brought by a strong cold air mass. More than 2,000 vehicles were stranded for many hours on an expressway. Snowfall is expected to intensify in some areas on Sunday. About 100 centimeters of snowfall is expected in Niigata, 80 centimeters in the Kanto-Koshin region, 70 centimeters in Nagano, 60 centimeters in Tohoku, 50 centimeters in the Hokuriku region and 40 centimeters in Hokkaido through Sunday morning. This is expected to then increase through Monday morning. A type of algae usually found in Greenland has started to grow in northern Italy - and it’s turning the glaciers pink. Despite its rosy appearance, pink snow isn’t good news on the climate change front. Usually, ice reflects over 80 per cent of the sun’s radiation back into the atmosphere. As the ice changes color, it loses the ability to reflect heat meaning the glaciers are starting to melt faster. The Presena glacier, near Pellizzano in Italy, is often called the “giant of the alps” and sits 3,069 meters above sea level. It has been described as a “paradise for all those who love nature, history and mountain sports.” Due to rising global temperatures melting ice on the mountains, the local ski resort Pontedilegno-Tonale initiated a conservation project in 2008. They use enormous pieces of geotextile fabric to cover up the glaciers all summer, keeping them cold and protecting from melting. However, despite their best efforts, the glacier now faces a new threat in the form of algae. According to Biagio Di Mauro of Italy’s National Research Council, the pink snow is likely caused by an organism which thrives in Greenland’s ‘Dark Zone’. This is an area where ice is also melting, causing a widespread darkening along the western margin of the ice sheet. “The alga is not dangerous, it is a natural phenomenon that occurs during the spring and summer periods in the middle latitudes but also at the Poles,” Di Mauro told the Guardian in an interview. Last year, a study estimated that two-thirds of glacier ice in the Alps will melt by 2100. The research, published in the journal The Cryosphere, warned that half of the ice on the mountain chain’s 4,000 glaciers will be gone by 2050, and two thirds will have melted by 2100, due to damaging effects of worldwide carbon emissions. Unsteady glaciers also pose a threat to Alpine towns and tourist areas. Scientists have developed “an intimate understanding of how glaciers behave”, Fabian Walter, a seismic glaciologist at ETH Zurich told the New York Times in 2019. But there is still “a lot we don’t understand about how, why or when a particular body of ice might collapse,” he says. “With climate change, the landscape is evolving in ways that are difficult to anticipate.” Significantly reducing our reliance on fossil fuels is the best way to stop ice from melting in places like the Alps and the Arctic. A 2019 study found that emissions generated from burning fossil fuels make up the biggest cause of ice melting in the Arctic, due to an accumulation of “black carbon”. According to the World Resources Institute (WRI), the most effective ways to transition to a cleaner, greener world include “putting a price on carbon” so that fossil fuel production isn’t subsidized. The institute also recommends that we invest more in energy efficient buildings, improve access to electricity all over the world and create the conditions for phasing out coal altogether. This kind of bold climate action could deliver at least $26 trillion in economic benefits through 2030, claims the WRI. A persistent blizzard has blanketed large parts of Spain with 50-year record levels of snow, halting traffic and leaving thousands trapped in cars or in train stations and airports that had suspended all services as the snow kept falling on Saturday. The first official victims of Storm Filomena were a man and woman whose bodies were recovered by the Andalucía regional emergency service after their car was washed away by a flooded river near the town of Fuengirola. Ten provinces of central Spain were on their highest level of alert, including the capital, Madrid, where authorities activated the red warning for the first time and called in the military to rescue people from vehicles trapped on everything from small roads to the city's major thoroughfares. Sandra Morena, who became trapped late on Friday as she commuted to her night shift as a security guard in a shopping center, arrived home, on foot, after an army emergency unit helped her out on Saturday morning. "It usually takes me 15 minutes but this time it has been 12 hours freezing, without food or water, crying with other people because we didn't know how were we going to get out of there," said Morena, 22. "Snow can be very beautiful but spending the night trapped in a car because of it is no fun," she added. The national AEMET weather agency had warned that some regions would be receiving more than 24 hours of continuous snowfall due to the odd combination of a cold air mass stagnant over the Iberian Peninsula and the arrival of the warmer Storm Filomena from the south. Forecasts of up to 20cm of snow were dwarfed by the build-up of over 50cm even in the urban center of Madrid. By 7 am CET on Saturday, AEMET had recorded a 24-hour snowfall of 33 liters per square meter in Madrid, something not seen since 1971. The storm is expected to move northeast throughout Saturday, the agency said. Carlos Novillo, head of the Madrid emergency agency, said that more than 1,000 vehicles had become trapped, mostly on the city's ring road and the main motorway that leads from the capital to the south, toward the Castilla La Mancha and Andalucia regions. "The situation remains of high risk. This is a very complex phenomenon and a critical situation," Novillo said on Saturday morning in a message posted on social media. "We ask all those who remain trapped to be patient, we will get to you," he added. Airport operator AENA said that the Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas International Airport, the main gateway in and out of the country, would remain closed throughout the day after the blizzard bested machines and workers trying to keep the runways clear of snow. All trains into and out of Madrid, both commuter routes and long-distance passenger trains, as well as railway lines between the south and the northeast of the country, were suspended, railway operator Renfe said. The storm had caused serious disruptions or closed altogether over 430 roads by Saturday morning, according to Spain’s transit authorities, which urged people to stay indoors and avoid all non-essential travel. The wintry weather even halted the country's soccer league, with some of the La Liga top teams unable to travel for games. Saturday’s match between Spanish league leader Atlético Madrid and Athletic Bilbao was postponed after the plane carrying Bilbao’s team on Friday was unable to land in the capital and had to turn around. The regions of Castilla La Mancha and Madrid, home to 8.6 million people altogether, announced that schools would be closed at least on Monday and Tuesday. The blizzard also yielded unusual images for many Madrileños, including a few brave people heading out with their ski gear on the Spanish capital’s main commercial avenue and in the central Puerta del Sol square, and even a dog sledge that was seen on videos widely circulated on social media. Madrid on Sunday began working to clear snow from an unprecedented blizzard carried by Storm Filomena, which hit the Spanish capital on Friday and Saturday. The city's Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas International Airport remained closed on Sunday, while train lines traversing the capital were shut down, and over 150 roads were unusable. In the city center, street cleaners worked to clear snow from busy pedestrian areas and footpaths. The storm was described by Madrid's mayor as the worst in 80 years. While the storm lost its strength as it moved eastward, Spanish authorities urged people to remain at home to limit the risk of falls on icy streets ahead of a severe drop in temperatures in the coming days. Madrid is trying to get back on its feet after a 50-year record snowfall that paralyzed large parts of central Spain over the weekend. It has now led to icy weather that is hampering the rollout of the much-needed vaccination against the coronavirus. Storm Filomena has lost much of its potency and is moving eastwards, but weather experts say the freezing temperatures will keep on falling into minus figures for several days. Spain was brought to a standstill on Saturday after record-setting snowfalls blanketed much of the country, bringing transport links grinding to a halt. With a sharp drop in temperatures on Monday and frost freezing much of the snow, which reached more than 50 centimeters (20 inches) in some urban areas, authorities are calling on people to avoid all but essential trips out of their homes. Conscious of the hazards now presented by ice, groups of local residents have been lending a hand with clearing the path to essential facilities. "We live in this neighborhood. Yesterday, we saw it on social media and all of our friends agreed to come this morning just to clear the way from the bus stop to the psychiatry building of the Gregorio Marañón Hospital," explained psychologist Rocío Sedano. "We want people to be able to walk safely, that they're able to walk without ice and we do our best to make things as safe as possible." The secretary of a local neighborhood association, Félix Sánche, said it was great to be able to do something to help the health workers. "They gave a lot to us during confinement and they have been going all-out during the pandemic, so the least we can do is to lend a hand". The snow has turned Madrid's famous buildings and plazas into icescapes that have drawn sightseers, with many people, masked against COVID-19 and the cold, taking advantage to get some fresh air and have a little fun in the snow. The snow ploughs have been out and about making the capital's streets accessible for ambulances and emergency vehicles. Much of the city's main services remained closed on Monday, including the main wholesale market, although some supermarkets and newsstands opened for the first time in three days. Residents, some with crampons and hiking sticks, could be seen warily trying to make their way on snow hardened into ice before disappearing into subway stations. The underground train system has become the only viable way to commute to work. Commuter trains in Madrid and the high-speed railway between Barcelona and Madrid would resume later on Monday, the national railway company Renfe said. The airport, which had been closed since Friday evening, saw a dozen flights take off or land on Monday and was expecting to resume full operations "throughout Monday," Transport Minister José Luis Ábalos said in an interview with Spain’s TVE. But a new batch of 350,000 doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine that Spain was expecting to receive on Monday at Madrid Barajas airport had to be diverted to the northern city of Vitoria, where a difficult effort to distribute it throughout the rest of the country by land was underway. This is New York City after a winter storm hit the eastern United States. With flakes falling since Sunday evening, the Big Apple and northern New Jersey were braced for as much as 55 centimeters of snow, and parts of New England for 30.5 cm or more. “We’re looking at a long two days here,” New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said at a virtual news conference. The New York City area had scattered power outages by early Monday evening, affecting about 3,200 homes and businesses in the city and its New York suburbs, 4,000 in New Jersey and 1,200 in Connecticut. Hundreds of flights and many trains and were cancelled, and aboveground New York City subway service stopped at 2 pm. In recent days, a storm system blanketed parts of the Midwest, with some areas getting the most snow in several years. Ohio and Washington DC, also got snow. The snow and cold in Washington led President Joe Biden to postpone a visit to the State Department that had been planned for Monday. New York City is famous for many things, not least of all because it is practically guaranteed snow every winter, which producers are sure to feature in every Christmas film set in the city. Videographers and photographers recently took to the streets to capture New York’s 2021 winter. The footage shows the sheer depth of snow the city received, and locals going about their day during the whiteout. New York is one of the most drastic cities when it comes to the seasons. Hot, balmy summers and bitterly cold winters are the result of its location between the Hudson River and Atlantic Ocean. The east coast of America is known to be colder than the west coast of Europe, despite both coastlines fronting the Atlantic. New York City’s average winter temperature is 0 degrees Celsius, while Porto, which lies at the same latitude, averages 8 degrees. This is all to do with various technical ‘-ologies’ including climatology and meteorology, but the same phenomenon happens over the Pacific too, where winters along Asia’s northeastern coast are much colder than in the Pacific northwest. While the New York snow makes for a pretty picture, the recent storm has been classed as ‘major’, causing huge disruptions across public transport and flights, closing schools, and impacting COVID-19 vaccination sites. Many iconic shots of the city under snow have surfaced over the years. Of course, gaining elevation makes for a beautiful view of New York any time of year, so the classic Empire State and Rockefeller vantage points rank on the list. Central Park, the city’s green space, can feel like a snow globe under the winter sky. This year, cross-country skiers were spotted in the park, and people were out making snow angels in the ground at Times Square. Much of east and southeast England was covered in snow by Storm Darcy over the weekend, forcing the closure of vaccination centers in some areas. Authorities issued severe weather warnings for southern England as heavy snow and icy conditions will likely disrupt roads and railways. The cold weather is expected to last until the end of the week. In eastern Germany, 20 cm of fresh snow fell in many places overnight. There were massive disruptions to rush-hour traffic especially on the A4 from Thuringia to Saxony. The motorways, in particular, were jammed in many places. Some schools were closed and flights cancelled in the Magadan region of Russia on Monday due to a major storm. Heavy snowfall caused severe difficulties for traffic in the area. Numerous cars were stuck in the snow on Monday, with drivers desperately trying to dig them out. Some of the regional highways were temporary closed due to bad road conditions and a warning was issued to drivers. Rescuers were working on clearing the roads and helping those who were stranded in their cars. Thousands of people spent the night trapped without moving in their cars after heavy snow forced a motorway to close down in Spain’s Castile and Leon region on Saturday (January 6). Spain’s El Pais reported that between 3,500 and 4,000 cars were blocked on the AP-6 motorway to Segovia all Saturday night waiting for snow blowers to clear the way. On Sunday morning, around a thousand vehicles remained trapped in the motorway said Spain’s Directorate-General of Traffic (DGT). Drivers took to social media to complain about the lack of communication from authorities. Some said they had been stuck for more than 12 hours without any help or explanation. "It's 8:30 and we've been here since 7. Nobody's come, there are meters and meters of snow. We are completely trapped without knowing what's going on. It's complete chaos," said Twitter user @PaulaPgr in a video. Spanish journalist Eugenia Marcos tweeted that the snow was too deep to drive through. Around 9 on Sunday, some people started saying they could finally see the army shoveling snow out of the way. "Reinforcements have come," said Juanse R Perez on Twitter. The Military Emergencies Unit (UME) was deployed to help clear AP-6, which runs from Madrid to Spain’s northwestern region of Galicia. Record snowfall in Moscow on Saturday and Sunday led to the death of a least one man. More than 2,000 trees have reportedly fallen, traffic has been severely hampered traffic and airports around the city have reported severe delays. The wet snow has led to the rupture of a number of power lines in the city, and a number of tram services have been halted. Moscow municipal services are sending in 14,000 snow-clearing units. By Sunday evening, temperatures are expected to drop to -10, and snowfall is expected to become less severe. A winter snowstorm is sweeping across the northern US Midwest. It is being blamed for a massive chain-reaction pileup involving 16 semitrailers and 38 vehicles in Michigan. The death toll stands at two. A 33-year-old woman died after a multi-vehicle crash near Fenton, Michigan on Friday, and a man in his 60s died of a heart attack while shoveling snow in Naperville, Illinois. The storm grounded hundreds of flights as it rolled east, and dumped 23cm of snow on Chicago. Forecasters are predicting more snowfall into Sunday, although the flurries are expected to be lighter. Heavy snowfall in Austria and Germany resulted in the deaths of seven people, Austrian media reported on January 7, with thousands cut off in mountain regions. Bavaria in southeastern Germany received more than 60 centimeters of snow, prompting schools to cancel classes, while about 120 flights were cancelled from Munich Airport, Deutsche Welle reported. Between 50 and 80 centimeters of snow fell over areas in western Austria, resulting in roads being blocked and helicopter flights being prohibited for safety reasons. Power was lost in hundreds of houses due to the storms and, in the state of Styria in southern Austria, 2,000 people were cut off, including skiers, Die Presse reported on January 7. The Canadian Army will send 150 to 200 soldiers to Newfoundland and Labrador to help the province recover from a blizzard that buried the region under an unusual amount of snow, Defense Minister Harjit Sajjan announced on Sunday, January 19. The soldiers were expected in the Atlantic province to help with snow clearing and removal operations. More than 28 inches (70 centimeters) of snow fell in 24 hours on St John's, the provincial capital. The snow and snowdrifts, caused by winds of more than 60 miles per hour (100 kilometers), blocked roads and buried cars and some houses. The number of troops, both active and reserve, could reach 250 or 300 in the next few days based on need, Sajjan said. The Canadian Armed Forces will also provide two Hercules transport planes and two Griffon helicopters, the minister said during a press conference on the sidelines of a government meeting in Winnipeg. The snow clearing operations are expected to take time and could be complicated by fresh snowfall. Three people have died in strong winds, heavy snowfall and low temperatures from Storm Gloria sweep across Spain. Aemet (State Meteorological Agency) declared a red alert across 10 provinces, expecting winds of up to 130 kilometers per hour (80 mph), seven-meter (22-foot) waves and heavy snowfall. The ports of Valencia and Gandia were closed to shipping traffic as a precaution, while Alicante airport was also closed, causing the cancellation or diversion of 190 flights. A red weather alert has been raised in the Altiplano area in the north of Murcia, after nearly 20 centimeters of snow fell on Monday. Gloria also brought snowstorms across the north of the country. In Asturias, a man was killed after being hit by a vehicle on a snowbound road, a spokeswoman for the emergency services said. Local media reported he was struck while fitting chains to his car. The eastern seaboard of the United States is bracing itself for a great white storm forecaster are saying is of epic proportions. A meter of snow is being predicted and five eastern states have already declared a state of emergency ahead of the blizzard, Tennessee, North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania, along with Washington DC. “We’re expecting a historic snowfall in the district, I think there’s probably one other on record that we’ve had that has had a snowfall in it, one event. We’ve been told to prepare for winds of up to forty miles per hour,” said the capital’s mayor, Muriel Bowser. Shops have been doing a roaring trade in plywood panels and snow shovels as people shutter houses and businesses on the coast, and prepare for the worst. Transport chaos is predicted, and people are being told to make only essential journeys. As much as a third of the country could be affected by the white-out even if the coastal areas will likely get the lion’s share of the snow. The entire Czech Republic is reportedly covered with up to half a meter of snow and counting. The country is on an orange alert until at least Thursday evening, meaning snow drifts and severe blizzards are expected. Transport has become treacherous with several roads and train lines closed. Freight lorries are also stuck in hilly areas especially in East Bohemia. Parts of northern Hungary have been put on a yellow alert and the river Tsza froze after the sudden drop in temperature. In Poland, fierce winds downed power lines leaving 16000 households without electricity. Forecasters warned that as much as half a meter of snow may fall in areas close to mountains and that arctic air could plunge temperatures to as low as -17 degrees Celsius. Germany has been hit by what’s thought to be its biggest storm in ten years. Emergency service workers have described conditions as unbearable. The stormy weather has led to flooding along Germany’s Baltic Sea coast and caused some damage to seaside promenades. Heavy snow storms have led to dozens of crashes on northern motorways with up to nine people reported seriously injured. Icy roads have also meant long delays and serious disruption for travelers. A cold snap and showers have hit much of central and eastern Europe in the last few days, including much of the Balkans. Bosnia was bracing itself for a spell of extremely cold weather forecast to begin later on Thursday, with temperatures expected to remain between -11 and -26 degrees centigrade. Kosovo Meteorological Institute issued a warning to stay indoors after Kosovo was expected to be hit by a polar cyclone. Millions of Americans in the northeast who are planning to travel for the Thanksgiving holiday this Thursday may not only encounter busy airports and congested highways, but also a deadly storm system bringing heavy winds, rain, snow and sleet to some of the most populous metro areas in the US. With the storm gathering pace, the 43 million people who are expected to travel 50 miles or more for Thanksgiving were warned to avoid driving during the worst conditions slated for Tuesday and Wednesday. Those days fall ahead of the Thursday Thanksgiving holiday and are among the busiest days of the year for air travel. A powerful storm that left at least 21 people dead over the weekend and has already created a mess for air travelers in the western US, especially in Texas, is now threatening to do the same at some of the busiest and most delay-prone, US airports along the eastern seaboard, meteorologists said Monday. It forced American Airlines to cancel nearly 1,000 flights at its Dallas/Fort Worth hub Sunday and Monday. AA hopes to resume normal operations there by Monday afternoon, but that could be just in time for new problems to sprout in the East. The storm will bring heavy snow to interior sections of the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast, but the biggest problems for Thanksgiving fliers will likely be the windy, cloudy and rainy conditions at some the busiest US airports: Logan in Boston, JFK and La Guardia in New York, Newark International, Philadelphia International, Thurgood Marshall in Baltimore and Dulles and Reagan National in Washington. These airports usually struggle to maintain normal schedules even in modest weather conditions. A full-fledged coastal storm could bring major delays and hundreds of cancellations just as a crush of Thanksgiving fliers head to the airports. The storm started Thursday in the Southwest, where it killed three people in California. It then moved on to New Mexico and Texas, both of which were placed under National Weather Service winter storm warnings until Monday. Up to 11,000 people were without power in parts of Texas over the weekend, utility suppliers said. By that time, it was gathering pace and moving on from New Mexico and plotting a path through eastern Texas, southeastern Oklahoma and Arkansas. Three of the 13 people killed by the storm died in a pileup of a dozen vehicles in the Texas Panhandle, and four deaths occurred in Oklahoma. Another man was killed in flooding in Arizona. A second major snow storm in a week has hit the US, causing travel chaos across 1600 km stretching from Nebraska to Pennsylvania. A huge winter weather system has buried the Chicago area under 30 cm of snow, closing schools and causing 1,600 flights to be cancelled. Forecasters say the storm is particularly slow moving, leaving airports to deal with thousands of stranded and disgruntled passengers. “Trying to get back today, our flight at 1:55 was cancelled. Unfortunately, we were here quite early because of the weather, and they didn’t let us know until just now. We’re trying to see. They can’t get us back out until Tuesday,” said one traveler. Icy conditions proved particularly hazardous in Nebraska a truck driver and a 62-year-old woman died in separate traffic accidents. Parts of New England still recovering from last week’s blizzard are bracing for up to 35cm of snow forecast for Monday. In Illinois, 20,000 people were left without power. New York had prepared for a major storm but managed to avoid the worst. A snow storm has hit Istanbul grounding planes halting traffic and forcing the temporary closure of the Bosphorus Strait shipping channel. Turkish airlines, Europe’s fourth largest carrier has been forced to cancel more than 300 flights. Some commuters had to walk work after as much as 60 cm of snow fell in two days. The storm also stranded members of the Besiktas football club for hours. The Istanbul side is scheduled to play Liverpool on Thursday in England. The club said the players had finally departed from an alternative city airport. Volunteers in Texas have rescued some 4,700 sea turtles off the state’s southern coast, where a winter storm left the reptiles stunned by the cold and on the verge of death. Thousands of large turtles are now being housed at a convention center on South Padre Island, as locals are trying to save the cold-blooded creatures by bringing their body temperatures back from the brink. “It’s an unprecedented event,” Wendy Knight, head of Sea Turtle Inc. conservation center, told Reuters. Knight says about 100 to 500 sea turtles will typically wash up on Texas beaches due to the cold each year, but this month’s storm has taken a much greater toll on the local population. The state was hammered this week by a days-long storm that has overtaxed its power grid, leaving millions of Texans without heat, light or electricity. The South Padre Island Convention Center and Visitors Bureau still has heat, and thus has become a defacto warming centre for the turtles. The reptiles are being kept in kiddy pools, enclosures and anywhere else that volunteers can find space. And the turtles just keep coming in, with more than 1,000 added to the count since Wednesday. “Every 15 minutes or less there’s another truck or SUV that pulls up,” Ed Caum, executive director of the center, told the Associated Press. Cold temperatures present a major danger for the cold-blooded turtles, according to Knight. They become more lethargic as the temperature drops, and they begin to show symptoms of hypothermia as they get closer to zero. The turtles have also been packed into the Sea Turtle Inc. rescue center and SpaceX launch facilities on the island. There are no immediate warm spells on the horizon, so Knight and her collaborators are simply going to hang on and try to save as many turtles as they can. Most of Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland are being pounded by heavy snow and high winds Monday, creating whiteout conditions in many areas. The storm moved into the Maritimes overnight heading west to east and is forecast to continue into Newfoundland and western Nova Scotia later in the day. Environment Canada has posted winter storm warnings for much of the East Coast. Agency meteorologist Samantha Roch said Nova Scotia had received 25 to 35 centimeters of snow by 4 a.m. with another 10 to 15 centimeters expected in central and northern areas of the province. She said eastern Nova Scotia and Cape Breton can expect another 20 to 30 centimeters before the snow tapers off by early afternoon. P.E.I. had received about 20 centimeters, and Roch said the province could expect another 10 before the snow stops falling later in the day. With powerful winds gusting up to 80 kilometers an hour, Roch said blowing snow was reducing visibility to near zero in many areas, creating hazardous driving conditions. Much of Newfoundland has also been hit with winter storm and snowfall warnings. Environment Canada said some parts of the island could get anywhere from 20 to 35 centimeters of snow and winds are expected to reach up to 100 kilometers an hour. Snowy conditions could last until Tuesday in some parts of Newfoundland, the agency said. Provincial government offices in Nova Scotia were closed Monday because of the heavy snowfall. The city of Halifax closed public transit services early, at 7 p.m., on Sunday evening. Bus service in that city will be delayed until at least noon Monday. Most health facilities in Nova Scotia are open despite the storm, but some COVID-19 assessment centers are closed for the day or have delayed their opening. All Halifax Regional Centre for Education schools are closed as well as Dalhousie University’s Halifax and Truro campuses and St. Mary’s University. In P. E. I, classes in the province’s Public-School Branch were called off Monday. Several schools in the Newfoundland and Labrador English School District, including those in the metro St. John’s area, are also closed. And due to the adverse weather across the Cabot Strait, Marine Atlantic has cancelled its day trips from North Sydney to Port aux Basques.
UK could be blanketed with up to seven inches of snow in the coming days, while a band of heavy rain expected to trigger flooding. Yellow weather warnings for “heavy snow” have been issued by the Met Office, covering much of Scotland and parts of northern England. Forecasters said snowy conditions could bring “significant” disruption to travel across central and northern Scotland. An alert is in place there from 4am on Thursday until 9am on Friday. Another warning of heavy snow for parts of England, covering north of Lancaster, west of Newcastle and running up to the Scottish border, is in place until 3pm on Thursday. Meanwhile, most of Northern Ireland and areas in north-west England could see flooding as 20-30mm of rainfall is predicted from Wednesday evening. A yellow warning of heavy rain over Northern Ireland is due to run up to 9am on Thursday, while another warning over Liverpool, Manchester, Stoke and Preston in England is in place for the whole day. People living in the affected areas should expect disruption to public transport, delays on the roads and some flooding of homes and businesses, the Met Office said. However, temperatures are set to increase in most areas as milder air moves in from the Atlantic, causing a “battleground” as it combines with colder air in the north. Parts of southern England and Wales could see “spring-like” weather, with temperatures rising as high as 14C. It comes after large swathes of the UK were left blanketed in snow last weekend. The Met Office said the UK o experienced its snowiest spell since late January 2019, when 20 weather stations in England recorded accumulations of 5cm or more for three days consecutively. Tom Morgan, a Met Office forecaster, said: “More milder conditions are set to move in from the Atlantic on Wednesday evening and will lead to a sort of battleground with the cold air in the north. This will cause some of the rain and snow which will impact areas across northern England and Scotland. Northern Ireland will see around 30mm of rainfall, while parts of north-west England could experience flooding, as the ground is already very saturated and the rivers are higher than usual. The Environment Agency had 13 flood warnings in place late on Wednesday evening, stretching from the Midlands to the North East, meaning immediate action is required. Mr Morgan said people in Scotland and in areas around the Pennines will see heavy snowfall lasting until Friday. He added: “Those travelling in snowy conditions should be wary of disruption to the roads and public transport, as much as 20cm could fall in the worst affected areas so people should be careful. Temperatures will be close to 0C in the coldest regions, while parts of southern England and Wales could reach spring-like temperatures, even as high as 14C. “So, there’s quite a disparity depending on where you live”. Snow swept across London on Sunday as forecasters warned of hazardous conditions. Many took to social media to share pictures of heavy snowfall outside their homes as the capital was gripped by a cold snap from Iceland and the Arctic. Overnight, the capital shivered in temperatures as low as -3C. A Transport for London roadside CCTV camera was among the first to capture a blizzard on the A4 Sipson Road near Heathrow. By 11am, heavy snow was falling as far east as Plumstead, in Greenwich. The hashtag “Narnia” was trending on social media as people shared images of their snowy neighborhoods. Mayor of London Sadiq Khan was also out enjoying the weather. He posted a video of his family’s golden retriever Luna spinning around the garden as the snow fell. One photo posted online showed a H13 bus struggling to make its journey through snow in Ruislip and a blanket over Clapham Common. Highways England warned that the snow had caused collisions on the M3, M27 and M25. The agency urged drivers to only travel if absolutely necessary. The Met Office was ready to put in place five new weather warnings for snow and ice going into the final week of January. By 2pm, however, the snowfall had turned to drizzle in many parts of the capital, melting most of what was lying on the pavements and parks. In flood-hit parts of the country, further heavy rainfall, which caused severe flooding in the wake of Storm Christoph, is not forecast until next Wednesday - but plummeting temperatures are expected. Forecasters predicted the snow in would continue to fall in London until at least the middle of Sunday afternoon. Monday is expected to be dry and sunny - but the Met Office is warning of icy conditions with temperatures set to stay as low as 4C. Temperatures across the whole of the UK dropped below freezing overnight, with the coldest temperatures in the Scottish Highlands at an icy -10C. Despite people being urged to heed flood warnings into the weekend, Mr Bowles said they were “gradually reducing” and that more heavy rain was not expected until Wednesday night or Thursday. A persistent blizzard blanketed large parts of Spain with an unusual amount of snow on Saturday, killing at least four people and leaving thousands trapped in cars or at train stations and airports that suspended all services. The national weather agency reported that as of 7 am CET, the snowfall in Madrid reached a level unseen in half a century. More than 50 centimeters (20 inches) of snow fell in the Spanish capital, according to the weather agency AEMET. More than half of Spain’s provinces remained under severe weather alerts for Storm Filomena on Saturday evening, seven of them at the highest level of warning. In Madrid, authorities activated a red alert for the first time since the system was adopted four decades ago and called in the military to rescue people from vehicles trapped on everything from small roads to the city’s major thoroughfares. As of Saturday evening, Spanish security services had rescued over 1,500 people who were trapped in vehicles, Interior Minister Fernando Grande-Marlaska said. AEMET had warned that some regions would be receiving more than 24 hours of continuous snowfall due to the odd combination of a cold air mass stagnant over the Iberian Peninsula and the arrival of the warmer Storm Filomena from the south. The storm is expected to be followed by a severe drop in temperatures in the coming days, the agency said. Transport Minster José Luis Ábalos warned that "snow is going to turn into ice and we will enter a situation perhaps more dangerous than what we have at the moment." A heavy winter storm has left around 50 people trapped at a mountain pass in Norway. Cars are buried in 2-3 meters of snow and the road is closed and impassable due to the weather. The travelers are inside and safe but need to wait for the weather to calm down and the roads to be cleared. Freak ice storms have left 150,000 people without water and electricity in the far eastern Russian city of Vladivostok and prompted a state of emergency. The exceptional weather brought down cables and trees, with the government of the Primorsky region declaring a state of emergency. Freezing rain began pummeling the city of some 600,000 people overnight Thursday after a cyclone carrying hot air met an anticyclone carrying cold air. Photos and videos published by local authorities and on social media showed everything from apartment buildings to road signs to public transport covered in ice. Video footage from a security camera showed a man moving away from his car at the last second as he was cleaning ice from its windshield before a block came crashing down from the side of a building. Russia’s northernmost city, Norilsk, has been waist-deep in snow for almost a week now, exposed to blizzards and gusts of strong wind reaching up to 27 meters per second. According to local media, in the past two months about 400 thousand tons of snow were removed from the Siberian city located 300 kilometers (186 miles) north of the Arctic Circle. The first major snowstorm of the season left the northeast US blanketed in snow, setting records in some areas. Nearly a meter of snow was dumped on Binghamton, New York, as of Thursday morning. A National Weather Service spokesperson said the storm sets a new two-day snowfall record. The previous record was recorded in March 2017 with 90 centimeters falling. Hazardous road conditions were reported in multiple states, causing dozens of crashes in New Hampshire, Connecticut and eastern New York. The storm came at a critical time of the coronavirus pandemic, though officials said they didn't expect the winter blast to disrupt vaccine distribution. COVID-19 vaccines started being given to frontline health care workers earlier this week. Weather officials in Japan warned that there will be more heavy snow this weekend, mainly in the mountainous areas of Hokkaido, Hokuriku and Kanto-Koshin regions. The record snowfall this week in Niigata and neighboring Gunma was brought by a strong cold air mass. More than 2,000 vehicles were stranded for many hours on an expressway. Snowfall is expected to intensify in some areas on Sunday. About 100 centimeters of snowfall is expected in Niigata, 80 centimeters in the Kanto-Koshin region, 70 centimeters in Nagano, 60 centimeters in Tohoku, 50 centimeters in the Hokuriku region and 40 centimeters in Hokkaido through Sunday morning. This is expected to then increase through Monday morning. A type of algae usually found in Greenland has started to grow in northern Italy - and it’s turning the glaciers pink. Despite its rosy appearance, pink snow isn’t good news on the climate change front. Usually, ice reflects over 80 per cent of the sun’s radiation back into the atmosphere. As the ice changes color, it loses the ability to reflect heat meaning the glaciers are starting to melt faster. The Presena glacier, near Pellizzano in Italy, is often called the “giant of the alps” and sits 3,069 meters above sea level. It has been described as a “paradise for all those who love nature, history and mountain sports.” Due to rising global temperatures melting ice on the mountains, the local ski resort Pontedilegno-Tonale initiated a conservation project in 2008. They use enormous pieces of geotextile fabric to cover up the glaciers all summer, keeping them cold and protecting from melting. However, despite their best efforts, the glacier now faces a new threat in the form of algae. According to Biagio Di Mauro of Italy’s National Research Council, the pink snow is likely caused by an organism which thrives in Greenland’s ‘Dark Zone’. This is an area where ice is also melting, causing a widespread darkening along the western margin of the ice sheet. “The alga is not dangerous, it is a natural phenomenon that occurs during the spring and summer periods in the middle latitudes but also at the Poles,” Di Mauro told the Guardian in an interview. Last year, a study estimated that two-thirds of glacier ice in the Alps will melt by 2100. The research, published in the journal The Cryosphere, warned that half of the ice on the mountain chain’s 4,000 glaciers will be gone by 2050, and two thirds will have melted by 2100, due to damaging effects of worldwide carbon emissions. Unsteady glaciers also pose a threat to Alpine towns and tourist areas. Scientists have developed “an intimate understanding of how glaciers behave”, Fabian Walter, a seismic glaciologist at ETH Zurich told the New York Times in 2019. But there is still “a lot we don’t understand about how, why or when a particular body of ice might collapse,” he says. “With climate change, the landscape is evolving in ways that are difficult to anticipate.” Significantly reducing our reliance on fossil fuels is the best way to stop ice from melting in places like the Alps and the Arctic. A 2019 study found that emissions generated from burning fossil fuels make up the biggest cause of ice melting in the Arctic, due to an accumulation of “black carbon”. According to the World Resources Institute (WRI), the most effective ways to transition to a cleaner, greener world include “putting a price on carbon” so that fossil fuel production isn’t subsidized. The institute also recommends that we invest more in energy efficient buildings, improve access to electricity all over the world and create the conditions for phasing out coal altogether. This kind of bold climate action could deliver at least $26 trillion in economic benefits through 2030, claims the WRI. A persistent blizzard has blanketed large parts of Spain with 50-year record levels of snow, halting traffic and leaving thousands trapped in cars or in train stations and airports that had suspended all services as the snow kept falling on Saturday. The first official victims of Storm Filomena were a man and woman whose bodies were recovered by the Andalucía regional emergency service after their car was washed away by a flooded river near the town of Fuengirola. Ten provinces of central Spain were on their highest level of alert, including the capital, Madrid, where authorities activated the red warning for the first time and called in the military to rescue people from vehicles trapped on everything from small roads to the city's major thoroughfares. Sandra Morena, who became trapped late on Friday as she commuted to her night shift as a security guard in a shopping center, arrived home, on foot, after an army emergency unit helped her out on Saturday morning. "It usually takes me 15 minutes but this time it has been 12 hours freezing, without food or water, crying with other people because we didn't know how were we going to get out of there," said Morena, 22. "Snow can be very beautiful but spending the night trapped in a car because of it is no fun," she added. The national AEMET weather agency had warned that some regions would be receiving more than 24 hours of continuous snowfall due to the odd combination of a cold air mass stagnant over the Iberian Peninsula and the arrival of the warmer Storm Filomena from the south. Forecasts of up to 20cm of snow were dwarfed by the build-up of over 50cm even in the urban center of Madrid. By 7 am CET on Saturday, AEMET had recorded a 24-hour snowfall of 33 liters per square meter in Madrid, something not seen since 1971. The storm is expected to move northeast throughout Saturday, the agency said. Carlos Novillo, head of the Madrid emergency agency, said that more than 1,000 vehicles had become trapped, mostly on the city's ring road and the main motorway that leads from the capital to the south, toward the Castilla La Mancha and Andalucia regions. "The situation remains of high risk. This is a very complex phenomenon and a critical situation," Novillo said on Saturday morning in a message posted on social media. "We ask all those who remain trapped to be patient, we will get to you," he added. Airport operator AENA said that the Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas International Airport, the main gateway in and out of the country, would remain closed throughout the day after the blizzard bested machines and workers trying to keep the runways clear of snow. All trains into and out of Madrid, both commuter routes and long-distance passenger trains, as well as railway lines between the south and the northeast of the country, were suspended, railway operator Renfe said. The storm had caused serious disruptions or closed altogether over 430 roads by Saturday morning, according to Spain’s transit authorities, which urged people to stay indoors and avoid all non-essential travel. The wintry weather even halted the country's soccer league, with some of the La Liga top teams unable to travel for games. Saturday’s match between Spanish league leader Atlético Madrid and Athletic Bilbao was postponed after the plane carrying Bilbao’s team on Friday was unable to land in the capital and had to turn around. The regions of Castilla La Mancha and Madrid, home to 8.6 million people altogether, announced that schools would be closed at least on Monday and Tuesday. The blizzard also yielded unusual images for many Madrileños, including a few brave people heading out with their ski gear on the Spanish capital’s main commercial avenue and in the central Puerta del Sol square, and even a dog sledge that was seen on videos widely circulated on social media. Madrid on Sunday began working to clear snow from an unprecedented blizzard carried by Storm Filomena, which hit the Spanish capital on Friday and Saturday. The city's Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas International Airport remained closed on Sunday, while train lines traversing the capital were shut down, and over 150 roads were unusable. In the city center, street cleaners worked to clear snow from busy pedestrian areas and footpaths. The storm was described by Madrid's mayor as the worst in 80 years. While the storm lost its strength as it moved eastward, Spanish authorities urged people to remain at home to limit the risk of falls on icy streets ahead of a severe drop in temperatures in the coming days. Madrid is trying to get back on its feet after a 50-year record snowfall that paralyzed large parts of central Spain over the weekend. It has now led to icy weather that is hampering the rollout of the much-needed vaccination against the coronavirus. Storm Filomena has lost much of its potency and is moving eastwards, but weather experts say the freezing temperatures will keep on falling into minus figures for several days. Spain was brought to a standstill on Saturday after record-setting snowfalls blanketed much of the country, bringing transport links grinding to a halt. With a sharp drop in temperatures on Monday and frost freezing much of the snow, which reached more than 50 centimeters (20 inches) in some urban areas, authorities are calling on people to avoid all but essential trips out of their homes. Conscious of the hazards now presented by ice, groups of local residents have been lending a hand with clearing the path to essential facilities. "We live in this neighborhood. Yesterday, we saw it on social media and all of our friends agreed to come this morning just to clear the way from the bus stop to the psychiatry building of the Gregorio Marañón Hospital," explained psychologist Rocío Sedano. "We want people to be able to walk safely, that they're able to walk without ice and we do our best to make things as safe as possible." The secretary of a local neighborhood association, Félix Sánche, said it was great to be able to do something to help the health workers. "They gave a lot to us during confinement and they have been going all-out during the pandemic, so the least we can do is to lend a hand". The snow has turned Madrid's famous buildings and plazas into icescapes that have drawn sightseers, with many people, masked against COVID-19 and the cold, taking advantage to get some fresh air and have a little fun in the snow. The snow ploughs have been out and about making the capital's streets accessible for ambulances and emergency vehicles. Much of the city's main services remained closed on Monday, including the main wholesale market, although some supermarkets and newsstands opened for the first time in three days. Residents, some with crampons and hiking sticks, could be seen warily trying to make their way on snow hardened into ice before disappearing into subway stations. The underground train system has become the only viable way to commute to work. Commuter trains in Madrid and the high-speed railway between Barcelona and Madrid would resume later on Monday, the national railway company Renfe said. The airport, which had been closed since Friday evening, saw a dozen flights take off or land on Monday and was expecting to resume full operations "throughout Monday," Transport Minister José Luis Ábalos said in an interview with Spain’s TVE. But a new batch of 350,000 doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine that Spain was expecting to receive on Monday at Madrid Barajas airport had to be diverted to the northern city of Vitoria, where a difficult effort to distribute it throughout the rest of the country by land was underway. This is New York City after a winter storm hit the eastern United States. With flakes falling since Sunday evening, the Big Apple and northern New Jersey were braced for as much as 55 centimeters of snow, and parts of New England for 30.5 cm or more. “We’re looking at a long two days here,” New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said at a virtual news conference. The New York City area had scattered power outages by early Monday evening, affecting about 3,200 homes and businesses in the city and its New York suburbs, 4,000 in New Jersey and 1,200 in Connecticut. Hundreds of flights and many trains and were cancelled, and aboveground New York City subway service stopped at 2 pm. In recent days, a storm system blanketed parts of the Midwest, with some areas getting the most snow in several years. Ohio and Washington DC, also got snow. The snow and cold in Washington led President Joe Biden to postpone a visit to the State Department that had been planned for Monday. New York City is famous for many things, not least of all because it is practically guaranteed snow every winter, which producers are sure to feature in every Christmas film set in the city. Videographers and photographers recently took to the streets to capture New York’s 2021 winter. The footage shows the sheer depth of snow the city received, and locals going about their day during the whiteout. New York is one of the most drastic cities when it comes to the seasons. Hot, balmy summers and bitterly cold winters are the result of its location between the Hudson River and Atlantic Ocean. The east coast of America is known to be colder than the west coast of Europe, despite both coastlines fronting the Atlantic. New York City’s average winter temperature is 0 degrees Celsius, while Porto, which lies at the same latitude, averages 8 degrees. This is all to do with various technical ‘-ologies’ including climatology and meteorology, but the same phenomenon happens over the Pacific too, where winters along Asia’s northeastern coast are much colder than in the Pacific northwest. While the New York snow makes for a pretty picture, the recent storm has been classed as ‘major’, causing huge disruptions across public transport and flights, closing schools, and impacting COVID-19 vaccination sites. Many iconic shots of the city under snow have surfaced over the years. Of course, gaining elevation makes for a beautiful view of New York any time of year, so the classic Empire State and Rockefeller vantage points rank on the list. Central Park, the city’s green space, can feel like a snow globe under the winter sky. This year, cross-country skiers were spotted in the park, and people were out making snow angels in the ground at Times Square. Much of east and southeast England was covered in snow by Storm Darcy over the weekend, forcing the closure of vaccination centers in some areas. Authorities issued severe weather warnings for southern England as heavy snow and icy conditions will likely disrupt roads and railways. The cold weather is expected to last until the end of the week. In eastern Germany, 20 cm of fresh snow fell in many places overnight. There were massive disruptions to rush-hour traffic especially on the A4 from Thuringia to Saxony. The motorways, in particular, were jammed in many places. Some schools were closed and flights cancelled in the Magadan region of Russia on Monday due to a major storm. Heavy snowfall caused severe difficulties for traffic in the area. Numerous cars were stuck in the snow on Monday, with drivers desperately trying to dig them out. Some of the regional highways were temporary closed due to bad road conditions and a warning was issued to drivers. Rescuers were working on clearing the roads and helping those who were stranded in their cars. Thousands of people spent the night trapped without moving in their cars after heavy snow forced a motorway to close down in Spain’s Castile and Leon region on Saturday (January 6). Spain’s El Pais reported that between 3,500 and 4,000 cars were blocked on the AP-6 motorway to Segovia all Saturday night waiting for snow blowers to clear the way. On Sunday morning, around a thousand vehicles remained trapped in the motorway said Spain’s Directorate-General of Traffic (DGT). Drivers took to social media to complain about the lack of communication from authorities. Some said they had been stuck for more than 12 hours without any help or explanation. "It's 8:30 and we've been here since 7. Nobody's come, there are meters and meters of snow. We are completely trapped without knowing what's going on. It's complete chaos," said Twitter user @PaulaPgr in a video. Spanish journalist Eugenia Marcos tweeted that the snow was too deep to drive through. Around 9 on Sunday, some people started saying they could finally see the army shoveling snow out of the way. "Reinforcements have come," said Juanse R Perez on Twitter. The Military Emergencies Unit (UME) was deployed to help clear AP-6, which runs from Madrid to Spain’s northwestern region of Galicia. Record snowfall in Moscow on Saturday and Sunday led to the death of a least one man. More than 2,000 trees have reportedly fallen, traffic has been severely hampered traffic and airports around the city have reported severe delays. The wet snow has led to the rupture of a number of power lines in the city, and a number of tram services have been halted. Moscow municipal services are sending in 14,000 snow-clearing units. By Sunday evening, temperatures are expected to drop to -10, and snowfall is expected to become less severe. A winter snowstorm is sweeping across the northern US Midwest. It is being blamed for a massive chain-reaction pileup involving 16 semitrailers and 38 vehicles in Michigan. The death toll stands at two. A 33-year-old woman died after a multi-vehicle crash near Fenton, Michigan on Friday, and a man in his 60s died of a heart attack while shoveling snow in Naperville, Illinois. The storm grounded hundreds of flights as it rolled east, and dumped 23cm of snow on Chicago. Forecasters are predicting more snowfall into Sunday, although the flurries are expected to be lighter. Heavy snowfall in Austria and Germany resulted in the deaths of seven people, Austrian media reported on January 7, with thousands cut off in mountain regions. Bavaria in southeastern Germany received more than 60 centimeters of snow, prompting schools to cancel classes, while about 120 flights were cancelled from Munich Airport, Deutsche Welle reported. Between 50 and 80 centimeters of snow fell over areas in western Austria, resulting in roads being blocked and helicopter flights being prohibited for safety reasons. Power was lost in hundreds of houses due to the storms and, in the state of Styria in southern Austria, 2,000 people were cut off, including skiers, Die Presse reported on January 7. The Canadian Army will send 150 to 200 soldiers to Newfoundland and Labrador to help the province recover from a blizzard that buried the region under an unusual amount of snow, Defense Minister Harjit Sajjan announced on Sunday, January 19. The soldiers were expected in the Atlantic province to help with snow clearing and removal operations. More than 28 inches (70 centimeters) of snow fell in 24 hours on St John's, the provincial capital. The snow and snowdrifts, caused by winds of more than 60 miles per hour (100 kilometers), blocked roads and buried cars and some houses. The number of troops, both active and reserve, could reach 250 or 300 in the next few days based on need, Sajjan said. The Canadian Armed Forces will also provide two Hercules transport planes and two Griffon helicopters, the minister said during a press conference on the sidelines of a government meeting in Winnipeg. The snow clearing operations are expected to take time and could be complicated by fresh snowfall. Three people have died in strong winds, heavy snowfall and low temperatures from Storm Gloria sweep across Spain. Aemet (State Meteorological Agency) declared a red alert across 10 provinces, expecting winds of up to 130 kilometers per hour (80 mph), seven-meter (22-foot) waves and heavy snowfall. The ports of Valencia and Gandia were closed to shipping traffic as a precaution, while Alicante airport was also closed, causing the cancellation or diversion of 190 flights. A red weather alert has been raised in the Altiplano area in the north of Murcia, after nearly 20 centimeters of snow fell on Monday. Gloria also brought snowstorms across the north of the country. In Asturias, a man was killed after being hit by a vehicle on a snowbound road, a spokeswoman for the emergency services said. Local media reported he was struck while fitting chains to his car. The eastern seaboard of the United States is bracing itself for a great white storm forecaster are saying is of epic proportions. A meter of snow is being predicted and five eastern states have already declared a state of emergency ahead of the blizzard, Tennessee, North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania, along with Washington DC. “We’re expecting a historic snowfall in the district, I think there’s probably one other on record that we’ve had that has had a snowfall in it, one event. We’ve been told to prepare for winds of up to forty miles per hour,” said the capital’s mayor, Muriel Bowser. Shops have been doing a roaring trade in plywood panels and snow shovels as people shutter houses and businesses on the coast, and prepare for the worst. Transport chaos is predicted, and people are being told to make only essential journeys. As much as a third of the country could be affected by the white-out even if the coastal areas will likely get the lion’s share of the snow. The entire Czech Republic is reportedly covered with up to half a meter of snow and counting. The country is on an orange alert until at least Thursday evening, meaning snow drifts and severe blizzards are expected. Transport has become treacherous with several roads and train lines closed. Freight lorries are also stuck in hilly areas especially in East Bohemia. Parts of northern Hungary have been put on a yellow alert and the river Tsza froze after the sudden drop in temperature. In Poland, fierce winds downed power lines leaving 16000 households without electricity. Forecasters warned that as much as half a meter of snow may fall in areas close to mountains and that arctic air could plunge temperatures to as low as -17 degrees Celsius. Germany has been hit by what’s thought to be its biggest storm in ten years. Emergency service workers have described conditions as unbearable. The stormy weather has led to flooding along Germany’s Baltic Sea coast and caused some damage to seaside promenades. Heavy snow storms have led to dozens of crashes on northern motorways with up to nine people reported seriously injured. Icy roads have also meant long delays and serious disruption for travelers. A cold snap and showers have hit much of central and eastern Europe in the last few days, including much of the Balkans. Bosnia was bracing itself for a spell of extremely cold weather forecast to begin later on Thursday, with temperatures expected to remain between -11 and -26 degrees centigrade. Kosovo Meteorological Institute issued a warning to stay indoors after Kosovo was expected to be hit by a polar cyclone. Millions of Americans in the northeast who are planning to travel for the Thanksgiving holiday this Thursday may not only encounter busy airports and congested highways, but also a deadly storm system bringing heavy winds, rain, snow and sleet to some of the most populous metro areas in the US. With the storm gathering pace, the 43 million people who are expected to travel 50 miles or more for Thanksgiving were warned to avoid driving during the worst conditions slated for Tuesday and Wednesday. Those days fall ahead of the Thursday Thanksgiving holiday and are among the busiest days of the year for air travel. A powerful storm that left at least 21 people dead over the weekend and has already created a mess for air travelers in the western US, especially in Texas, is now threatening to do the same at some of the busiest and most delay-prone, US airports along the eastern seaboard, meteorologists said Monday. It forced American Airlines to cancel nearly 1,000 flights at its Dallas/Fort Worth hub Sunday and Monday. AA hopes to resume normal operations there by Monday afternoon, but that could be just in time for new problems to sprout in the East. The storm will bring heavy snow to interior sections of the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast, but the biggest problems for Thanksgiving fliers will likely be the windy, cloudy and rainy conditions at some the busiest US airports: Logan in Boston, JFK and La Guardia in New York, Newark International, Philadelphia International, Thurgood Marshall in Baltimore and Dulles and Reagan National in Washington. These airports usually struggle to maintain normal schedules even in modest weather conditions. A full-fledged coastal storm could bring major delays and hundreds of cancellations just as a crush of Thanksgiving fliers head to the airports. The storm started Thursday in the Southwest, where it killed three people in California. It then moved on to New Mexico and Texas, both of which were placed under National Weather Service winter storm warnings until Monday. Up to 11,000 people were without power in parts of Texas over the weekend, utility suppliers said. By that time, it was gathering pace and moving on from New Mexico and plotting a path through eastern Texas, southeastern Oklahoma and Arkansas. Three of the 13 people killed by the storm died in a pileup of a dozen vehicles in the Texas Panhandle, and four deaths occurred in Oklahoma. Another man was killed in flooding in Arizona. A second major snow storm in a week has hit the US, causing travel chaos across 1600 km stretching from Nebraska to Pennsylvania. A huge winter weather system has buried the Chicago area under 30 cm of snow, closing schools and causing 1,600 flights to be cancelled. Forecasters say the storm is particularly slow moving, leaving airports to deal with thousands of stranded and disgruntled passengers. “Trying to get back today, our flight at 1:55 was cancelled. Unfortunately, we were here quite early because of the weather, and they didn’t let us know until just now. We’re trying to see. They can’t get us back out until Tuesday,” said one traveler. Icy conditions proved particularly hazardous in Nebraska a truck driver and a 62-year-old woman died in separate traffic accidents. Parts of New England still recovering from last week’s blizzard are bracing for up to 35cm of snow forecast for Monday. In Illinois, 20,000 people were left without power. New York had prepared for a major storm but managed to avoid the worst. A snow storm has hit Istanbul grounding planes halting traffic and forcing the temporary closure of the Bosphorus Strait shipping channel. Turkish airlines, Europe’s fourth largest carrier has been forced to cancel more than 300 flights. Some commuters had to walk work after as much as 60 cm of snow fell in two days. The storm also stranded members of the Besiktas football club for hours. The Istanbul side is scheduled to play Liverpool on Thursday in England. The club said the players had finally departed from an alternative city airport. Volunteers in Texas have rescued some 4,700 sea turtles off the state’s southern coast, where a winter storm left the reptiles stunned by the cold and on the verge of death. Thousands of large turtles are now being housed at a convention center on South Padre Island, as locals are trying to save the cold-blooded creatures by bringing their body temperatures back from the brink. “It’s an unprecedented event,” Wendy Knight, head of Sea Turtle Inc. conservation center, told Reuters. Knight says about 100 to 500 sea turtles will typically wash up on Texas beaches due to the cold each year, but this month’s storm has taken a much greater toll on the local population. The state was hammered this week by a days-long storm that has overtaxed its power grid, leaving millions of Texans without heat, light or electricity. The South Padre Island Convention Center and Visitors Bureau still has heat, and thus has become a defacto warming centre for the turtles. The reptiles are being kept in kiddy pools, enclosures and anywhere else that volunteers can find space. And the turtles just keep coming in, with more than 1,000 added to the count since Wednesday. “Every 15 minutes or less there’s another truck or SUV that pulls up,” Ed Caum, executive director of the center, told the Associated Press. Cold temperatures present a major danger for the cold-blooded turtles, according to Knight. They become more lethargic as the temperature drops, and they begin to show symptoms of hypothermia as they get closer to zero. The turtles have also been packed into the Sea Turtle Inc. rescue center and SpaceX launch facilities on the island. There are no immediate warm spells on the horizon, so Knight and her collaborators are simply going to hang on and try to save as many turtles as they can. Most of Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland are being pounded by heavy snow and high winds Monday, creating whiteout conditions in many areas. The storm moved into the Maritimes overnight heading west to east and is forecast to continue into Newfoundland and western Nova Scotia later in the day. Environment Canada has posted winter storm warnings for much of the East Coast. Agency meteorologist Samantha Roch said Nova Scotia had received 25 to 35 centimeters of snow by 4 a.m. with another 10 to 15 centimeters expected in central and northern areas of the province. She said eastern Nova Scotia and Cape Breton can expect another 20 to 30 centimeters before the snow tapers off by early afternoon. P.E.I. had received about 20 centimeters, and Roch said the province could expect another 10 before the snow stops falling later in the day. With powerful winds gusting up to 80 kilometers an hour, Roch said blowing snow was reducing visibility to near zero in many areas, creating hazardous driving conditions. Much of Newfoundland has also been hit with winter storm and snowfall warnings. Environment Canada said some parts of the island could get anywhere from 20 to 35 centimeters of snow and winds are expected to reach up to 100 kilometers an hour. Snowy conditions could last until Tuesday in some parts of Newfoundland, the agency said. Provincial government offices in Nova Scotia were closed Monday because of the heavy snowfall. The city of Halifax closed public transit services early, at 7 p.m., on Sunday evening. Bus service in that city will be delayed until at least noon Monday. Most health facilities in Nova Scotia are open despite the storm, but some COVID-19 assessment centers are closed for the day or have delayed their opening. All Halifax Regional Centre for Education schools are closed as well as Dalhousie University’s Halifax and Truro campuses and St. Mary’s University. In P. E. I, classes in the province’s Public-School Branch were called off Monday. Several schools in the Newfoundland and Labrador English School District, including those in the metro St. John’s area, are also closed. And due to the adverse weather across the Cabot Strait, Marine Atlantic has cancelled its day trips from North Sydney to Port aux Basques.