Britain is braced for more flooding and gale-force winds today after Storm Bella lashed the UK overnight with 100mph gusts and heavy rain. Weather warnings are in place across most of England and Wales, with the second named storm of the 2020/21 season set to continue battering the UK after days of wintry weather across the Christmas break. The warnings include two “threat to life” flood notices, where hundreds of people were evacuated from a holiday park on Christmas Eve. 
A further 88 flood warnings have been issued in England, while there are six in place in Wales and 12 in Scotland. The Met Office has also issued wind alerts, with an amber warning in place for communities from Cornwall to Kent, where residents have been told to expect building damage and the possibility of flying debris in the stormy conditions. There are further yellow weather warnings for wind and rain in place across England, Wales, Northern Ireland and northern Scotland, indicating 60mph winds are likely across the country. 
The warnings come after stormy weather overnight, when winds of 106mph were recorded at The Needles on the Isle of Wight. North west Wales experienced gusts of 83mph, and locations on the south coast of England, including Dorset, got close to 80mph. Fire crews in north Yorkshire rescued a number of people from vehicles stranded in floodwater overnight. 
North Yorkshire Fire and Rescue Service said they used a boat to rescue two men and two dogs from a vehicle stuck in flowing floodwater in Hawes at 12.37am on Sunday. In Aysgarth, a man and a woman were also rescued by boat from the roof of their car at 2.40am after they drove into deep floodwater. And firefighters walked a woman to safety through shallow water in Wensley at 3.35am after a minor collision while driving through floods. Firefighters from the London Fire Brigade were also seen battling strong winds as they attempted to re-build the coronavirus temperature check area outside Homerton University Hospital in east London on Saturday evening. It follows days of severe wet weather in parts of southern and eastern England, which prompted more than 1,300 homes near Bedford to be evacuated over Christmas. One family described having to abandon their Christmas turkey and settle for turkey sandwiches in a hotel on Christmas Day after police told them to leave their home late on December 24. 
In Northamptonshire, the voluntary search and rescue group said 250 people had been rescued and evacuated from the Billing Aquadrome holiday park on the River Nene on Christmas Eve, where a serious flood warning remains is in place. There is another warning for the Cogenhoe Mill Caravan site nearby. Among those rescued, were three adults from a car that was partially submerged in a ditch and a new mother and young baby. 
Flood defenses were also put up in St Neots, Cambridgeshire ahead of the overnight storm, and extra pumps deployed to the Welches Dam and Soham Lodge areas. On Sunday, as the storm continued, Southeastern Railway reported several lines were experiencing disruption due to the storm. One of the major lines into London was blocked when a tree fell on to the tracks in Haslemere, Surrey. 
The line from Gillingham to Rainham was blocked in both directions after a trampoline blew onto the track. All trains between Bournemouth and Southampton Central were stopped due to water on the line, Great Western Railway said. Storm Bella is set to bring heavy rain and severe gales of up to 70mph in coastal parts of the UK. 
The Met Office has issued an amber weather warning for wind as Storm Bella is expected to cause travel disruptions for parts of south England and south Wales. A yellow warning for wind for the whole of England and Wales as well as the far south of Scotland has also been issued and will be in force from 3pm on Boxing Day. Bedfordshire Police “strongly urged” residents living near the River Great Ouse in north Bedfordshire to seek alternative accommodation due to fears of flooding on Friday night. On Christmas Day, Superintendent Steve Ashdown, who is leading the response, said officers had visited just over 1,300 homes in the area the previous evening. The river is currently at heightened levels and we’re predicting a significant flooding event by 8pm this evening. If you received one of those notices last night, you are in one of those properties that are most at risk from this flood. We would encourage you to leave if it is safe for you to do so, as soon as you are able to do so. Appreciate the timing of this at Christmas Day is not great, but the risk to you and your family and wellbeing is significant. He asked residents able to leave their homes to do so in a “Covid-safe way” if possible, recommending they go to one single location and stay there until it is safe to return in the coming days. 
On Thursday, the Environment Agency issued two severe flood warnings for the River Nene in Northamptonshire, indicating a risk to life. It comes after widespread flooding around the country saw people rescued from vehicles and others evacuated from their homes following a period of heavy rain on Christmas Eve. One resident shared pictures of their home in the village of Sully in South Wales which was over-run with water after heavy rainfall. The flooding even submerged their Christmas tree and presents for their loved ones. 
Across England, a total of 111 flood warnings and 137 flood alerts, as well as the two severe flood warnings, remained in force at 5am on Christmas Day as huge amounts of water flowed through river catchments. 
Northamptonshire Police said the emergency services were working through the night to evacuate more than 1,000 people from the Billing Aquadrome holiday park in the county. The force said the heavy rain had caused flooding with water up to 5ft deep in places. 
Reports of snow had come in from Leconfield in Humberside and Wattisham in Suffolk as of 5am on Friday morning, while parts of Greater Manchester saw snow during the afternoon. Storm Christoph has prompted widespread flooding across the UK, with thousands forced to evacuate their homes in the worst-hit regions. 
Almost 200 flood warnings remain in place across the country this morning - four of which are “danger to live” warnings - after thousands of people were told to leave their homes. Some 2,000 properties in Greater Manchester - which has also seen snow - were evacuated on Wednesday because of rising water levels, while people were also asked to leave their homes in parts of North Wales and Merseyside. 
Elsewhere, London is expected to see both rain and snow later this week. Temperatures in the capital will plunge on Sunday to -4C during the day as low as -1C s at night. Gabrielle Burns-Smith, 44, whose home in Lymm flooded, said that she “watched the water coming through the back door” in the early hours of Thursday morning. She said: “By 3pm yesterday the water outside was shin-deep and by 4pm it was knee-deep, and we were seriously worrying that the house was going to be breached. Then it was. “We’re still in the house, we can’t go anywhere because we can’t get the car out, the water is just too deep. Both our living rooms are flooded.” 
Heavy rain has lashed parts of the country, with provisional figures showing Cleveland in North Yorkshire received more than their average January rainfall in just 48 hours. 
Three yellow weather warnings have been issued by the Met Office, including an ice warning in place until 10am on Friday covering western Scotland, North West England, Northern Ireland and much of Wales. Colder air is now established across the UK as Storm Christoph moves away into the North Sea, and gale force winds will impact the northeast of the country. 
Emergency teams were called out to protect supplies of the Oxford University and AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine following flooding at a manufacturing site in Wales. Excess water surrounded buildings at Wockhardt's pharmaceutical manufacturing facility on Wrexham Industrial Estate during heavy rainfall caused by Storm Christoph. 
The leader of Wrexham County Borough said that authorities worked "through the night" to ensure that the site was not overwhelmed by flood water. Mark Pritchard said on Thursday morning that resources such as gullies had been put in place to protect the vaccine storage facility on the industrial estate. Boris Johnson has suggested that a major tree-planting programme could help protect against flooding in the long term. On a visit to Didsbury, south Manchester, he said: One idea that everybody in the Environment Agency talks about, and I believe in absolutely passionately, is planting trees on the higher ground to help absorb some of that rainfall, to help mitigate the effects of flooding. This Government has a very ambitious tree-planting programme, but, in my view, we’re not going fast enough. 
As the spring comes and we come out of the pandemic, we’re going to want to see a lot done to build in long-term resilience against flooding and against climate change, and planting trees is a big part of that. Temperatures could drop as low as -10C in the coming days as the flooding and heavy rain of Storm Christoph gives way to colder winter weather. Care home residents were among those evacuated after floods in several areas across the North West and Wales following days of heavy rain. 
The rain is expected to ease off but the mercury will begin to plunge, with sub-zero temperatures bringing icy conditions this weekend. We’re losing the rain but gaining some colder and possibly some wintry weather too. 
A yellow weather warning for ice is in place along a large part of western coasts until 10am on Friday. The alert warns there is the possibility of injuries from icy conditions on ground which is already wet. 
The warning stretches from the Scottish Highlands, down to the north west of England and into Wales, as well as Northern Ireland. An additional yellow warning for snow and ice is in place across northern parts of Scotland until Friday lunchtime. The chilly weather will continue into the weekend, when temperatures could drop to minus 10C overnight in localized parts of Scotland. Around 40 residents were assisted out of the Weaver Court care home in Northwich, Cheshire, by fire crews with dinghies on Thursday afternoon. Most of the town center laid under water. 
Earlier in the day, Cheshire Fire and Rescue had said it was in the process of rescuing 21 people by boat from Lea Court nursing home in the town of Warrington. Elsewhere, people were also told to leave their homes in the Didsbury and Northenden areas of Greater Manchester, Bangor-on-Dee in North Wales and in the Skewen area of Neath, North Wales. Meanwhile, South Wales Police said on Twitter that the body of a man had been recovered from the River Taff near Blackweir in Cardiff on Thursday, with the death being treated as unexplained. Elsewhere in Wales, emergency teams were called out to protect supplies of the Oxford University and AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine following flooding at Wrexham Industrial Estate. 
Three severe flood warnings – signifying a threat to life – remain in place on Friday morning on the River Dee at Farndon, Bangor-on-Dee and the Lower Dee Valley near Llangollen. As of 5am on Friday morning, there were an additional 182 flood warnings and 176 less serious flood alerts still in place in England, 13 flood warnings and 27 flood alerts in Wales and four flood alerts in Scotland. 
Areas which were hit the hardest by Storm Christoph experienced less rainfall on Thursday, with the highest daily total instead being recorded in Oxfordshire. Overall, 31mm fell in Bicester between midnight and 8pm, and the second highest total was in Aberdeenshire, where 29mm fell over the same period. “Thankfully the areas that saw a lot of the rain on Tuesday and Wednesday have certainly been a bit drier today,” Mr Snell said. 
Environment Secretary George Eustice chaired a Cobra meeting in response to the ongoing flooding on Thursday afternoon, but reiterated “the danger has not passed”. In a statement following the meeting, the water levels remain high and there is the risk of possible further flooding next week so everyone needs to remain vigilant, follow the advice and sign up for flood alerts. Another person has died due to extreme weather and floods in the UK caused by Storm Dennis. 
The storm's confirmed on Monday the death of a woman as West Mercia Police said a body had been found in the search for a 55-year-old woman who had been missing near Tenbury in Worcestershire since Sunday. This came after the storm was blamed for the deaths of two men who were pulled from the sea in separate searches off England's southeastern coast on Saturday. By Monday evening, Britain's Environment Agency issued seven severe flood warnings in the central English counties of Herefordshire, Staffordshire and Worcestershire. 
Another 200 lower-level flood warnings were also in place, meaning that flooding was expected. Some 480 flood warnings and alerts were issued across England on Monday, the highest number on record, the agency said. Storm Dennis hammered Britain on Sunday — the country's second deadly severe weather event in a week — bringing a month's worth of rain in just 48 hours and widespread floods. Major incidents were declared in several areas in England and Wales as authorities mobilized resources to deal with the impact of the overflowing rivers that have cut off some communities. At one stage on Sunday, England had the most flood warnings and lower-level alerts in force than on any other day on record. 
The Met Office, Britain's meteorological service, issued a “red warning" for extremely life-threatening flooding for the first time since December 2015. Though the warning only lasted a few hours, South Wales Police declared a major incident as firefighters and rescue crews continued to help communities following multiple floods, landslides and evacuations. Nearby Gwent Police said residents were being advised to evacuate due to the flooding. 
The Met Office said the highest wind gust recorded was 91 mph in north Wales on Saturday. It also said a total of 157.6 mm of rain fell at Crai Reservoir in the Welsh county of Powys over 48 hours to Sunday morning. 
As the wet and windy weather started to clear across parts of the south and headed north and eastwards, the number of flood warnings across the UK declined but there were still around 360 in place on Sunday, from the north of Scotland through to Cornwall. 
Flood warnings could remain in place for a while since much of Britain is still saturated from last week's Storm Ciara, which left eight people dead across Europe. Army personnel have been seconded to assist people in areas of West Yorkshire that were badly hit by flooding during last weekend's Storm Ciara. The British Red Cross said that with water levels expected to peak on Monday or Tuesday it was ready to respond across the country. 
Towns and villages across the UK were flooded after the second large storm in as many weeks. Aerial footage showed extensive flooding in the town of Hereford and the surrounding areas, as the River Wye burst its banks during extreme rainfall caused by Storm Dennis. Some 480 flood warnings and alerts were issued across England on Monday by the country's Environment Agency, the highest number on record. 
The storm's confirmed death toll rose to three after West Mercia Police confirmed a body had been found in the search for a 55-year-old woman who had been missing near Tenbury in Worcestershire since Sunday. 
Clean-up efforts have begun in parts of the UK that experienced widespread flooding, after the storm flooded roads, railways, homes and businesses, and disrupted travel across Britain. Parts of Europe are braced for Storm Jorge this weekend, which is expected to bring yet more rain to flood-hit Britain — and Saharan dust across southern Europe. 
Rain warnings were issued in Ireland, where Met Eireann said heavy rain would "worsen the flooding situation across the country". The western part of the island is also set for "severe winds". 
The Met Office has forecast that between 60-80mm of rain could fall in Wales and northern England over the weekend. With rain falling on already saturated ground, further flooding is possible in places, it warned. The UK, still reeling from the impact of Storm Dennis and Storm Ciara, already has 88 flood warnings in place. Meanwhile, the Spanish meteorological agency has placed the country's Atlantic coast under yellow alert, with an orange warning for the municipality of A Coruna. It has warned that waves of up to 5 meters could batter the coast. 
The storm will also usher another episode of "calima" — when strong, warm winds laden with sand and dust particles from the Sahara blow northwards towards Europe. This can have an impact on air quality and on infrastructure. One such episode last weekend in the Canary Islands, off the coast of Morocco, grounded flights. The upcoming episode in mainland Europe is expected to be milder but Mark Parrington from the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts flagged that high surface PM10 from calima dust storm predicted across bay over the weekend. 
Florida is bracing for tropical storm Isaias to hit its coast on Sunday, which threatens to curb efforts to quell the surging cases of the coronavirus in the region. Isaias was downgraded from a hurricane to a tropical storm on Saturday, but heavy rain and flooding is still expected. Don’t be fooled by the downgrade, Florida Governor Ron DeSantis warned during a news conference on Saturday after the storm. Florida has closed beaches, parks and virus testing sites and has secured signs to palm trees to prevent them blowing away. The governor said the state is anticipating power outages and asked residents to have a week’s supply of water, food and medicine on hand. But officials are grappling with how to prepare shelters where people can seek refuge from the storm if necessary, while safely social distancing to prevent the spread of the virus. Florida is one of the states hardest hit by COVID-19 in the US. 
The hurricane is not that serious, but I feel that the public is really panicking because it’s a hurricane and we’re in the middle of a pandemic. State-run virus testing sites have closed in areas where the storm might hit because the sites are outdoor tents. The storm’s maximum sustained winds declined steadily throughout Saturday, and were at 65 mph (100 kph) by Sunday morning, the US National Hurricane Center said. The storm is forecast to approach the southeast coast of Florida early Sunday, then travel up the state’s east coast throughout the day. Isaias was destructive in the Caribbean on Thursday and has wreaked havoc in the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico, where it caused flooding and landslides. 
Seven people, including an en elderly couple and an eight-month-old baby, were found dead after a storm hit the island of Evia in central Greece, authorities said. Heavy rain started falling at about midnight and firefighters responded to over 50 fires caused by lightning. Dozens were trapped by floodwaters in their homes. The elderly couple was found unconscious in their home in Politika. 
Deputy Minister for Civil Protection Nikos Hardalias confirmed the deaths. Many residents have climbed to the rooftops of their homes and the fire service has sent a rescue helicopter to the area. Road connections to the mainland - there are two bridges connecting Evia to Central Greece - have been cut and only a ferry service was operating. North-western France on Thursday braced for heavy rainfalls and winds of up to 150kmh as Storm Alex made landfall. 
Thursday braced for heavy rainfalls and winds of up to 150kmh as Storm Alex made landfall. 
The French meteorological agency issued a red warning for the coastal department of Morbihan, in Brittany. Four neighbouring departments have also been put on amber alert. Météo France said that gusts of up to 150kmh were expected in Morbihan, adding that "many trees are will fall down and power cuts are therefore likely". Other departments in Brittany can expect gusts of up to 140kmh and rainfall of up to 80mm. The opposite end of the country, the south-eastern region of Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur, has also been issued an amber warning due to a "high-intensity Mediterranean episode", forecast to start on Friday morning. "Expected rainfall accumulations during the episode are between 100mm and 150mm over large areas, with 200 to 250mm in some," Météo France warned. 
Storm Alex will also impact southern parts of the UK on Friday with heavy rain and coastal gales of around 100kmh, ushering in a wet weekend. "Parts of Wales, southwest England and eastern Scotland could see over 100mm of rain falling over the weekend, which is likely to lead to significant impacts from flooding, an enhanced risk of landslides, along with very difficult during conditions," the Met Office said. 
Germany has pledged to give storms more diverse names after an online initiative called for a better reflection of the multi-cultural makeup of German society. A low-pressure system bringing frigid temperatures, dark clouds, and snow to the country has been titled 'Ahmet', a boy's name of Turkish origin. Other storms to follow include traditionally male Arabic, Kurdish and Greek names such as Cemal, Goran, Hakim, and Dimitrios. Meanwhile, high-pressure systems reaching Germany early this year will be called Bozena, Chana, or Dragica, traditionally females names with Polish, Hebrew, and South Slavic roots. In Germany, storms are not solely named by meteorologists, and any citizen can participate at a cost between €240 and €360, depending on the pressure system. In an effort to make the weather more cross-cultural, the New German Media Makers, an association representing journalists with diverse backgrounds, has purchased a number of storms for the beginning of 2020. The project, dubbed hashtag #wetterberichtigung online, is a symbolic initiative demanding that Germany's diversity is better reflected across society. "So far, our weather had mostly typical German names only, even though some 26 percent of people in Germany have migrant roots," said Ferda Ataman, the head of the group. 
The low and high-pressure systems of 2021 will also still feature traditional German names, including Reinhard, Volker, and Margarethe. "The names of the high and low-pressure areas at the beginning of 2021 are as diverse as our society," Germany's Integration Commissioner said on Twitter, "and that is just as well". The New German Media Makers is also lobbying for German media outlets to establish hiring quotas for journalists of color or from migrant families. They estimate that minority journalists are vastly underrepresented in the country's media, with just 5 to 10 percent of reporters and editors having migrant roots. 
Dozens of flood warnings have been issued for parts of northern England and Wales after Storm Christoph brought heavy rains, forcing an estimated 2,000 people to leave their homes. Many people in areas around Greater Manchester and in North Wales have been surveying damage to properties from serious flooding. By early afternoon on Thursday there were still five "severe flood warnings" in place -- three in England and two in Wales -- indicating a danger to life. More than 200 "flood warnings" called for immediate action to deal with expected flooding, while a similar number of "flood alerts" warned people to be prepared for possible flooding. Greater Manchester Police said early on Thursday afternoon that latest information suggested "we are past the worst point of potential flooding". But emergency services remain present in affected areas as people return to their homes. 
The UK Environment Agency said the River Mersey had come "within centimeters" of bursting its banks, adding that people needed to remain vigilant for the next couple of days. Boris Johnson visited the Didsbury area and praised the protective and relief work carried out by emergency teams. "What I'm seeing here is the amazing preparations that the Environment Agency makes, the way they're able to use sluice gates, the way they're able to use improvised emergency flood defences to protect homes," the prime minister said. 
The authorities said thousands of properties had been protected. "Teams are continuing to work 24/7 - operating barriers, clearing grilles, issuing warnings and supporting other emergency responders," Environment Agency Chief Executive James Bevan said on Twitter. 
Footage posted on social media by a resident of Ruthin in North Wales showed flooded streets after the River Clwyd burst its banks. Local emergency services urged residents to leave their homes as heavy rain and even snow continued to fall through the night. At least one insurance company is offering free counselling to flood victims in the UK, saying "tens of thousands of people face the double disaster of flooding overlaid by the pandemic". 
The Met Office predicted colder, less wet weather for England and Wales from Thursday afternoon as Storm Christoph "only slowly moves away". However, weather warnings were still in force for parts of northern Scotland for rain, snow and ice. As Storm Christoph runs riot in the UK, one company is offering its flood-hit customers free counselling. People are currently being evacuated from their homes as England and Wales are hit by widespread flooding. 
Weather forecasters have warned more heavy rain is on the way, along with blizzards and a foot of snow. So far, over 500 flood warnings are in place, with the Manchester suburbs of Didsbury and Northenden being the worst affected areas. To help people cope with the immediate impacts of flooding, from damaged properties and the destruction of crops to the grief caused by lost lives, one insurance company is providing a new service for victims. Calling the impact of climate-related weather events “devastating”, Zurich UK is providing five therapy sessions to policy-holders and their immediate families over the age of 18. The insurer is also demanding that the British government overhaul the “broken” flood grant system to further protect people. “The physical impact of extreme weather is impossible to ignore. But there is reason to be concerned about another, ‘hidden’ consequence of the UK’s increasingly destructive weather – the harm it is doing to people’s mental health.” With the country still in the grip of COVID-19, tens of thousands of people face the double disaster of flooding overlaid by the pandemic. If ever there was a moment to wake up to the mental, as well as the physical devastation caused by flooding, it is now. Studies at the University of York and the National Centre for Social Research show that people whose homes are damaged by storms or flooding are significantly more likely to experience mental health issues, such as depression and anxiety. This also takes into account other factors such as social disadvantage, debt and poor physical health. People hit by storm and flood damage were 50 per cent more likely to experience poorer mental health, according to the study. As the climate crisis intensifies the frequency and severity of extreme weather, it is crucial that we all seek mental health support. Feeling overwhelmed and anxious is not uncommon at all, with more and more of us reporting feelings of “eco anxiety”. The condition is defined as an apprehension towards climate change, which manifests as a form of existential crisis. Human activity results in heat-trapping pollution, which encourages sea levels to hike up. Sea levels rise when glaciers and ice sheets melt, adding water to the ocean, and the volume of the ocean gradually expands as the water becomes warmer. Within three decades, rising sea levels could push chronic floods higher than land currently home to 300 million people. By 2100, areas now home to 200 million people could fall permanently below the high tide line. Extreme floods can also be triggered by intense precipitation, according to UN environment. In the case of the UK, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) found that this is the principal cause. This is an increasing trend in Europe, especially for winter flooding. “While it is difficult to make a direct link between an individual extreme event and climate change, it is clear that we need to be prepared to face more intense and more frequent extreme hydro-meteorological events due to climate change,” states Pascal Peduzzi, Director of the United Nations Environment Programme’s (UNEP) Global Resource Information Database in Geneva. Residents of a town in the UK were reduced to tears on Saturday after a river burst its banks and flooded their homes - just a year after a similar disaster occurred. The town of Bewdley, in Worcestershire, saw its flood defence barriers breached after heavy rain caused the River Severn to overflow, sending deep, muddy waters gushing into streets and homes. In response, firefighters deployed boats to rescue those who were trapped by the flooding, according to British broadcaster Sky News. One resident, Dan Madden, broke down in tears as he called upon Prime Minister Boris Johnson to install a permanent flood barrier, which could stop such an incident happening again. The heavy rainfall came as a result of Storm Christoph, which swept across the UK this week, prompting the UK's Environment Agency to warn of "exceptionally high river levels". Storm Bella continued to lash parts of England and Wales over the weekend causing flooding and disruption and depriving 18,000 homes of electricity in northern France. Gusts of over 150km per hour were recorded in some parts of the UK with residents in Great Barford in Bedfordshire southeast England — one of the worst affected areas — putting up flood defenses and sandbags in attempts to keep rising river waters at bay. ''Everyone rallied round last night from about six o'clock, all the way through to three o'clock this morning, people, local neighbors were digging the trenches, bringing sandbags," resident Jan Schofield explained. Both Great Barford and Bedford are in Tier 4, England's highest level of COVID-19 restrictions. ''Please don't be heroic, please follow the guidelines, do not do anything that's not approved," urged the leader of Bedford Borough Council, Philip Simpkins. "And also COVID is not going away, this hasn't yet suddenly allowed COVID to disappear, hateful figures remain absolutely high.'' Wales was also hit by the storm with heavy seas and high waves lashing the coast of Porthcawl. Road and rail travel across Britain has been widely disrupted with the public being advised to check with train operators before setting off. Northwestern France was also hit by Storm Bella. Some 18,000 households were left without power on Sunday morning — two-thirds of which in the north-eastern areas of Brittany and Normandy. The remaining 6,000 houses deprived of electricity were in the northern Nord and Pas-de-Calais départements. Earlier in the morning, gusts of up to 143 km per hour were recorded in Pas-de-Calais. Some 500 technicians in total across these areas were deployed to reconnect houses to the network, energy operator Enedis said. France's meteorological agency has removed its amber warning for north-eastern coastal areas but warned in its latest bulletin that the "wave-submersion" phenomenon associated with Storm Bella is remarkable and affects the coastlines of the Atlantic coast". "Particularly powerful waves affecting the Aquitaine coast require special attention," it added. Efforts to vaccinate people in the remote Amazonas state in Brazil are being badly hampered by flooding. Anama is a municipality home to 14,000 people on a tributary of the Solimoes River, which flows toward the capital of Manaus. It is just one of dozens of towns in the Amazonas state that have recently seen life upended by floods due to higher-than-average rainfall. Health workers have been forced to take to boats to deliver vaccines to vulnerable residents who have been stranded by the deluge. "Today," nurse Tayline Bastos told Euronews,"we are going house to house with vaccines for influenza and against COVID. We're are vaccinating people aged 18 to 59 with chronic conditions." The flooding has also led to the suspension of a mass vaccination effort aimed at stemming the spread of COVID-19 in remote areas of the vast state. Brazil has been battered by COVID-19 in both its remote, underdeveloped regions and cities where crowded neighbourhoods and poverty often go hand in hand. New favelas are sprouting up in Sao Paulo, built and lived in by recently-unemployed workers like Giovani de Souza, who lost his former jobs and home in the coronavirus pandemic. Now living in the Penha Brasil favela, he said: "Everyone ended up being fired. Without a job, I couldn't pay my rent. I was evicted from where I was and found the solution here; I built my small shack and I'm now living here." Giovani's story is far from uncommon. Former saleswoman Jessica Costa also lost her job and consequently, her home. She has now moved to the same favela. "We decided to come here," she said, "because with only one person working it's not possible [to make rent], with two small children, one aged four and the other two. Things got tough and we had to come here. But I used to work before, too." There appears to be no let-up in the pandemic in Brazil even as vaccination drives get under way. The latest figures showed over 67,000 new infections registered in the previous 24 hours, while the country's officially-recorded death toll now stands at over 430,000. A small tornado struck Turkey's Aegean coast on Thursday night, injuring at least sixteen people. Strong winds hit the resort town of Çeşme around 90 kilometers west of the city of Izmir, uprooting trees and sweeping up cars. The worst damage was noticed at a construction site for summer villas where the crane was toppled and a container housing the construction workers overturned. At least four boats were also capsized overnight, officials have reported. The local government had earlier warned citizens to expect "sudden floods, strong winds with lightning and small-scale hail". Powerful winds and hail also caused damage in the nearby town of Urla, destroying hundreds of commercial greenhouses. The mayor of neighboring district Karşıyaka, Cemil Tugay, has also sent his wishes to Çeşme following the tornado. Between 1980 and 2013, a total of 59 tornadoes were recorded across Turkey, according to the State Meteorological Service. French Prime Minister Jean Castex is due to visit the southwestern Lot-et-Garonne department on Friday following serious flooding in recent days in the wake of Storm Justine. The level of the River Garonne around Marmande -- between Bordeaux and Toulouse remains "very high", although the red alert was reduced to orange on Thursday. The head of the government is to see rescue operations in progress and meet local government and other officials. The Garonne reached a height of 10.20 metres overnight from Wednesday into Thursday, a level not seen for 40 years and just short of the record, set at 11.39m in June 1875. The two bridges over the river at Marmande remain closed. The nearby town Meilhan-sur-Garonne was left underwater. In the wider region scores of people had to be evacuated. According to the authorities, emergency crews have intervened more than 300 times to deal with endangered property, fallen trees, and to rescue people, since Storm Justine struck last weekend, bringing flooding in its wake. On Thursday morning 45 roads remained closed in Lot-et-Garonne, 12 were underwater and six schools were still closed. Paris was put on flood alert earlier this week with the River Seine's water levels on the rise following heavy spells of rain.
tMet Office has forecast that between 60-80mm of rain could fall in Wales and northern England over the weekend. With rain falling on already saturated ground, further flooding is possible in places, it warned. The UK, still reeling from the impact of Storm Dennis and Storm Ciara, already has 88 flood warnings in place. Meanwhile, the Spanish meteorological agency has placed the country's Atlantic coast under yellow alert, with an orange warning for the municipality of A Coruna. It has warned that waves of up to 5 meters could batter the coast. The storm will also usher another episode of "calima" — when strong, warm winds laden with sand and dust particles from the Sahara blow northwards towards Europe. This can have an impact on air quality and on infrastructure. One such episode last weekend in the Canary Islands, off the coast of Morocco, grounded flights. The upcoming episode in mainland Europe is expected to be milder but Mark Parrington from the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts flagged that high surface PM10 from calima dust storm predicted across bay over the weekend. Florida is bracing for tropical storm Isaias to hit its coast on Sunday, which threatens to curb efforts to quell the surging cases of the coronavirus in the region. Isaias was downgraded from a hurricane to a tropical storm on Saturday, but heavy rain and flooding is still expected. Don’t be fooled by the downgrade, Florida Governor Ron DeSantis warned during a news conference on Saturday after the storm. Florida has closed beaches, parks and virus testing sites and has secured signs to palm trees to prevent them blowing away. The governor said the state is anticipating power outages and asked residents to have a week’s supply of water, food and medicine on hand. But officials are grappling with how to prepare shelters where people can seek refuge from the storm if necessary, while safely social distancing to prevent the spread of the virus. Florida is one of the states hardest hit by COVID-19 in the US. The hurricane is not that serious, but I feel that the public is really panicking because it’s a hurricane and we’re in the middle of a pandemic. State-run virus testing sites have closed in areas where the storm might hit because the sites are outdoor tents. The storm’s maximum sustained winds declined steadily throughout Saturday, and were at 65 mph (100 kph) by Sunday morning, the US National Hurricane Center said. The storm is forecast to approach the southeast coast of Florida early Sunday, then travel up the state’s east coast throughout the day. Isaias was destructive in the Caribbean on Thursday and has wreaked havoc in the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico, where it caused flooding and landslides. Seven people, including an en elderly couple and an eight-month-old baby, were found dead after a storm hit the island of Evia in central Greece, authorities said. Heavy rain started falling at about midnight and firefighters responded to over 50 fires caused by lightning. Dozens were trapped by floodwaters in their homes. The elderly couple was found unconscious in their home in Politika. Deputy Minister for Civil Protection Nikos Hardalias confirmed the deaths. Many residents have climbed to the rooftops of their homes and the fire service has sent a rescue helicopter to the area. Road connections to the mainland - there are two bridges connecting Evia to Central Greece - have been cut and only a ferry service was operating. North-western France on Thursday braced for heavy rainfalls and winds of up to 150kmh as Storm Alex made landfall. The French meteorological agency issued a red warning for the coastal department of Morbihan, in Brittany. Four neighbouring departments have also been put on amber alert. Météo France said that gusts of up to 150kmh were expected in Morbihan, adding that "many trees are will fall down and power cuts are therefore likely". Other departments in Brittany can expect gusts of up to 140kmh and rainfall of up to 80mm. North-western France on Thursday braced for heavy rainfalls and winds of up to 150kmh as Storm Alex made landfall. The French meteorological agency issued a red warning for the coastal department of Morbihan, in Brittany. Four neighbouring departments have also been put on amber alert. Météo France said that gusts of up to 150kmh were expected in Morbihan, adding that "many trees are will fall down and power cuts are therefore likely". Other departments in Brittany can expect gusts of up to 140kmh and rainfall of up to 80mm. The opposite end of the country, the south-eastern region of Provence-Alpes-Cote d'Azur, has also been issued an amber warning due to a "high-intensity Mediterranean episode", forecast to start on Friday morning. "Expected rainfall accumulations during the episode are between 100mm and 150mm over large areas, with 200 to 250mm in some," Météo France warned. Storm Alex will also impact southern parts of the UK on Friday with heavy rain and coastal gales of around 100kmh, ushering in a wet weekend. "Parts of Wales, southwest England and eastern Scotland could see over 100mm of rain falling over the weekend, which is likely to lead to significant impacts from flooding, an enhanced risk of landslides, along with very difficult during conditions," the Met Office said. Germany has pledged to give storms more diverse names after an online initiative called for a better reflection of the multi-cultural makeup of German society. A low-pressure system bringing frigid temperatures, dark clouds, and snow to the country has been titled 'Ahmet', a boy's name of Turkish origin. Other storms to follow include traditionally male Arabic, Kurdish and Greek names such as Cemal, Goran, Hakim, and Dimitrios. Meanwhile, high-pressure systems reaching Germany early this year will be called Bozena, Chana, or Dragica, traditionally females names with Polish, Hebrew, and South Slavic roots. In Germany, storms are not solely named by meteorologists, and any citizen can participate at a cost between €240 and €360, depending on the pressure system. In an effort to make the weather more cross-cultural, the New German Media Makers, an association representing journalists with diverse backgrounds, has purchased a number of storms for the beginning of 2020. The project, dubbed hashtag #wetterberichtigung online, is a symbolic initiative demanding that Germany's diversity is better reflected across society. "So far, our weather had mostly typical German names only, even though some 26 percent of people in Germany have migrant roots," said Ferda Ataman, the head of the group. The low and high-pressure systems of 2021 will also still feature traditional German names, including Reinhard, Volker, and Margarethe. "The names of the high and low-pressure areas at the beginning of 2021 are as diverse as our society," Germany's Integration Commissioner said on Twitter, "and that is just as well". The New German Media Makers is also lobbying for German media outlets to establish hiring quotas for journalists of color or from migrant families. They estimate that minority journalists are vastly underrepresented in the country's media, with just 5 to 10 percent of reporters and editors having migrant roots. Dozens of flood warnings have been issued for parts of northern England and Wales after Storm Christoph brought heavy rains, forcing an estimated 2,000 people to leave their homes. Many people in areas around Greater Manchester and in North Wales have been surveying damage to properties from serious flooding. By early afternoon on Thursday there were still five "severe flood warnings" in place -- three in England and two in Wales -- indicating a danger to life. More than 200 "flood warnings" called for immediate action to deal with expected flooding, while a similar number of "flood alerts" warned people to be prepared for possible flooding. Greater Manchester Police said early on Thursday afternoon that latest information suggested "we are past the worst point of potential flooding". But emergency services remain present in affected areas as people return to their homes. The UK Environment Agency said the River Mersey had come "within centimeters" of bursting its banks, adding that people needed to remain vigilant for the next couple of days. Boris Johnson visited the Didsbury area and praised the protective and relief work carried out by emergency teams. "What I'm seeing here is the amazing preparations that the Environment Agency makes, the way they're able to use sluice gates, the way they're able to use improvised emergency flood defences to protect homes," the prime minister said. The authorities said thousands of properties had been protected. "Teams are continuing to work 24/7 - operating barriers, clearing grilles, issuing warnings and supporting other emergency responders," Environment Agency Chief Executive James Bevan said on Twitter. Footage posted on social media by a resident of Ruthin in North Wales showed flooded streets after the River Clwyd burst its banks. Local emergency services urged residents to leave their homes as heavy rain and even snow continued to fall through the night. At least one insurance company is offering free counselling to flood victims in the UK, saying "tens of thousands of people face the double disaster of flooding overlaid by the pandemic". The Met Office predicted colder, less wet weather for England and Wales from Thursday afternoon as Storm Christoph "only slowly moves away". However, weather warnings were still in force for parts of northern Scotland for rain, snow and ice. As Storm Christoph runs riot in the UK, one company is offering its flood-hit customers free counselling. People are currently being evacuated from their homes as England and Wales are hit by widespread flooding. Weather forecasters have warned more heavy rain is on the way, along with blizzards and a foot of snow. So far, over 500 flood warnings are in place, with the Manchester suburbs of Didsbury and Northenden being the worst affected areas. To help people cope with the immediate impacts of flooding, from damaged properties and the destruction of crops to the grief caused by lost lives, one insurance company is providing a new service for victims. Calling the impact of climate-related weather events “devastating”, Zurich UK is providing five therapy sessions to policy-holders and their immediate families over the age of 18. The insurer is also demanding that the British government overhaul the “broken” flood grant system to further protect people. “The physical impact of extreme weather is impossible to ignore. But there is reason to be concerned about another, ‘hidden’ consequence of the UK’s increasingly destructive weather – the harm it is doing to people’s mental health.” With the country still in the grip of COVID-19, tens of thousands of people face the double disaster of flooding overlaid by the pandemic. If ever there was a moment to wake up to the mental, as well as the physical devastation caused by flooding, it is now. Studies at the University of York and the National Centre for Social Research show that people whose homes are damaged by storms or flooding are significantly more likely to experience mental health issues, such as depression and anxiety. This also takes into account other factors such as social disadvantage, debt and poor physical health. People hit by storm and flood damage were 50 per cent more likely to experience poorer mental health, according to the study. As the climate crisis intensifies the frequency and severity of extreme weather, it is crucial that we all seek mental health support. Feeling overwhelmed and anxious is not uncommon at all, with more and more of us reporting feelings of “eco anxiety”. The condition is defined as an apprehension towards climate change, which manifests as a form of existential crisis. Human activity results in heat-trapping pollution, which encourages sea levels to hike up. Sea levels rise when glaciers and ice sheets melt, adding water to the ocean, and the volume of the ocean gradually expands as the water becomes warmer. Within three decades, rising sea levels could push chronic floods higher than land currently home to 300 million people. By 2100, areas now home to 200 million people could fall permanently below the high tide line. Extreme floods can also be triggered by intense precipitation, according to UN environment. In the case of the UK, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) found that this is the principal cause. This is an increasing trend in Europe, especially for winter flooding. “While it is difficult to make a direct link between an individual extreme event and climate change, it is clear that we need to be prepared to face more intense and more frequent extreme hydro-meteorological events due to climate change,” states Pascal Peduzzi, Director of the United Nations Environment Programme’s (UNEP) Global Resource Information Database in Geneva. Residents of a town in the UK were reduced to tears on Saturday after a river burst its banks and flooded their homes - just a year after a similar disaster occurred. The town of Bewdley, in Worcestershire, saw its flood defence barriers breached after heavy rain caused the River Severn to overflow, sending deep, muddy waters gushing into streets and homes. In response, firefighters deployed boats to rescue those who were trapped by the flooding, according to British broadcaster Sky News. One resident, Dan Madden, broke down in tears as he called upon Prime Minister Boris Johnson to install a permanent flood barrier, which could stop such an incident happening again. The heavy rainfall came as a result of Storm Christoph, which swept across the UK this week, prompting the UK's Environment Agency to warn of "exceptionally high river levels". Storm Bella continued to lash parts of England and Wales over the weekend causing flooding and disruption and depriving 18,000 homes of electricity in northern France. Gusts of over 150km per hour were recorded in some parts of the UK with residents in Great Barford in Bedfordshire southeast England — one of the worst affected areas — putting up flood defenses and sandbags in attempts to keep rising river waters at bay. ''Everyone rallied round last night from about six o'clock, all the way through to three o'clock this morning, people, local neighbors were digging the trenches, bringing sandbags," resident Jan Schofield explained. Both Great Barford and Bedford are in Tier 4, England's highest level of COVID-19 restrictions. ''Please don't be heroic, please follow the guidelines, do not do anything that's not approved," urged the leader of Bedford Borough Council, Philip Simpkins. "And also COVID is not going away, this hasn't yet suddenly allowed COVID to disappear, hateful figures remain absolutely high.'' Wales was also hit by the storm with heavy seas and high waves lashing the coast of Porthcawl. Road and rail travel across Britain has been widely disrupted with the public being advised to check with train operators before setting off. Northwestern France was also hit by Storm Bella. Some 18,000 households were left without power on Sunday morning — two-thirds of which in the north-eastern areas of Brittany and Normandy. The remaining 6,000 houses deprived of electricity were in the northern Nord and Pas-de-Calais départements. Earlier in the morning, gusts of up to 143 km per hour were recorded in Pas-de-Calais. Some 500 technicians in total across these areas were deployed to reconnect houses to the network, energy operator Enedis said. France's meteorological agency has removed its amber warning for north-eastern coastal areas but warned in its latest bulletin that the "wave-submersion" phenomenon associated with Storm Bella is remarkable and affects the coastlines of the Atlantic coast". "Particularly powerful waves affecting the Aquitaine coast require special attention," it added. Efforts to vaccinate people in the remote Amazonas state in Brazil are being badly hampered by flooding. Anama is a municipality home to 14,000 people on a tributary of the Solimoes River, which flows toward the capital of Manaus. It is just one of dozens of towns in the Amazonas state that have recently seen life upended by floods due to higher-than-average rainfall. Health workers have been forced to take to boats to deliver vaccines to vulnerable residents who have been stranded by the deluge. "Today," nurse Tayline Bastos told Euronews,"we are going house to house with vaccines for influenza and against COVID. We're are vaccinating people aged 18 to 59 with chronic conditions." The flooding has also led to the suspension of a mass vaccination effort aimed at stemming the spread of COVID-19 in remote areas of the vast state. Brazil has been battered by COVID-19 in both its remote, underdeveloped regions and cities where crowded neighbourhoods and poverty often go hand in hand. New favelas are sprouting up in Sao Paulo, built and lived in by recently-unemployed workers like Giovani de Souza, who lost his former jobs and home in the coronavirus pandemic. Now living in the Penha Brasil favela, he said: "Everyone ended up being fired. Without a job, I couldn't pay my rent. I was evicted from where I was and found the solution here; I built my small shack and I'm now living here." Giovani's story is far from uncommon. Former saleswoman Jessica Costa also lost her job and consequently, her home. She has now moved to the same favela. "We decided to come here," she said, "because with only one person working it's not possible [to make rent], with two small children, one aged four and the other two. Things got tough and we had to come here. But I used to work before, too." There appears to be no let-up in the pandemic in Brazil even as vaccination drives get under way. The latest figures showed over 67,000 new infections registered in the previous 24 hours, while the country's officially-recorded death toll now stands at over 430,000. A small tornado struck Turkey's Aegean coast on Thursday night, injuring at least sixteen people. Strong winds hit the resort town of Çeşme around 90 kilometers west of the city of Izmir, uprooting trees and sweeping up cars. The worst damage was noticed at a construction site for summer villas where the crane was toppled and a container housing the construction workers overturned. At least four boats were also capsized overnight, officials have reported. The local government had earlier warned citizens to expect "sudden floods, strong winds with lightning and small-scale hail". Powerful winds and hail also caused damage in the nearby town of Urla, destroying hundreds of commercial greenhouses. The mayor of neighboring district Karşıyaka, Cemil Tugay, has also sent his wishes to Çeşme following the tornado. Between 1980 and 2013, a total of 59 tornadoes were recorded across Turkey, according to the State Meteorological Service. French Prime Minister Jean Castex is due to visit the southwestern Lot-et-Garonne department on Friday following serious flooding in recent days in the wake of Storm Justine. The level of the River Garonne around Marmande -- between Bordeaux and Toulouse remains "very high", although the red alert was reduced to orange on Thursday. The head of the government is to see rescue operations in progress and meet local government and other officials. The Garonne reached a height of 10.20 metres overnight from Wednesday into Thursday, a level not seen for 40 years and just short of the record, set at 11.39m in June 1875. The two bridges over the river at Marmande remain closed. The nearby town Meilhan-sur-Garonne was left underwater. In the wider region scores of people had to be evacuated. According to the authorities, emergency crews have intervened more than 300 times to deal with endangered property, fallen trees, and to rescue people, since Storm Justine struck last weekend, bringing flooding in its wake. On Thursday morning 45 roads remained closed in Lot-et-Garonne, 12 were underwater and six schools were still closed. Paris was put on flood alert earlier this week with the River Seine's water levels on the rise following heavy spells of rain.