Extreme drought across the Western US has become as reliable as a summer afternoon thunderstorm in Florida. And news headlines about drought in the West can seem a bit like a broken record, with some scientists saying the region is on the precipice of permanent drought. Last week, several smaller fires in a national park north of Sydney combined to form a mega blaze. 
The severity of the blazes so early in the country's fire season has caused alarm, and has prompted calls for greater action to tackle climate change. The fires have blanketed Sydney in smoke for weeks and sent ash falling, causing a surge in respiratory issues. Australia's bushfire crisis drew worldwide attention, but it wasn’t the only extreme weather event to plague the nation in recent months. 
Drought, dust storms, fires and floods are normal during an Australian summer. Temperatures are predicted to soar above 40 from Tuesday, worsening fires which have already killed six people since October. Under the new rules, people are not allowed to water their gardens between 10 to 16. When they do water their gardens, they can only do so with a bucket or a watering can, hoses and sprinklers are banned. Cars can only be washed with a bucket or at a commercial car wash, and swimming pools of any size cannot be filled unless the owner acquires a special permit. 
Under level three restrictions, people will only be able to water their gardens before 9 and after 18, and will be banned from taking showers longer than five minutes. This was originally predicted to happen in July, but could now be much earlier due to the worsening bushfires and drought. Several rural towns have already run out of tap water and are relying on bottled supplies and trucked-in cartons. 
A number of inland centers have endured water restrictions for months. The tinder-dry environment has created nightmarish conditions for sparking and sustaining bushfires. With rising temperatures and increased wind speeds expected to exacerbate the blazes on Tuesday, firefighters have been carrying out the controlled burning of grassland around homes to remove fuel, officials said. 
Last week, several smaller fires in a national park north of Sydney combined to form a mega blaze. The severity of the blazes so early in the country's fire season has caused alarm, and has prompted calls for greater action to tackle climate change. 
The fires have blanketed Sydney in smoke for weeks and sent ash falling, causing a surge in respiratory issues. Australia's bushfire crisis drew worldwide attention, but it wasn’t the only extreme weather event to plague the nation in recent months. Drought, dust storms, fires and floods are normal during an Australian summer. But the severity and duration of these events made this season one of the worst people can remember. Hand-washing to prevent Covid-19's spread may have further boosted demand during a dry, sunny month, it said. May's drought compounded problems for farmers, already suffering after a wet February delayed seed germination, making some crops unviable. 
When the rains stopped coming two years ago, transforming Denise Reid's once flourishing banana fields into an expanse of desiccated wasteland, she was bewildered at first. Here in rural Portland, Jamaica's wettest parish for as long as anyone can remember, farmers are battling for survival on the frontier of climate change. Farmers didn't know how to manage those issues as they've always had rain. There was a lot of confusion. Despite the overwhelming challenges of 2020, Europe’s climate didn’t go unnoticed last year. 
Several record-breaking weather events and the influence of global and regional climate characteristics marked Europe’s seasons, while data showed Europe is on a clear warming path. Just released by the Copernicus Climate Change Service, the 2020 European State of the Climate report reviews the main climate patterns and weather events of 2020 across Europe, highlighting changes and variability, as well as putting the data into a more global perspective. This is also the first-time report expands its focus beyond Europe to the entire Arctic region, whose climate can play a significant role in Europe’s climate. 2020 was Europe’s warmest year to date, as temperatures rose by almost half a degree above previous records. 
Across the entire continent, mean temperatures exceeded the 2010 average, with parts of northern and eastern Europe being more than 2°C warmer. The same regions had higher than average daily minimum temperatures, while France and Benelux countries saw higher daily maximum temperatures. 
The most striking temperature anomaly was last winter. Only a few events marked an otherwise rather average year for rainfall across Europe. 
In a wetter than average winter, February saw the highest amount of rainfall of the year, which affected large areas across western Europe and caused rivers, such as the Rhine, to peak early in the month. Then, things changed. It’s striking how we’ve gone from a wet winter to a dry spring in such a short time. 
We see it very clearly in the rainfall, soil moisture and river flows, and this had knock-on effects on vegetation. According to the report, the lack of rainfall, as well as the below-average cloud cover and high sunshine in spring, which increased water evaporation from soils, produced western Europe’s driest spring in 40 years. 
Experts say it remains challenging to say whether rainfall events are becoming more extreme across Europe. However, it is estimated that in the Mediterranean region, there is a 22% increase in the intensity of rainfall in the last 50 years, while the frequency of heavy downpours has almost doubled over the same period. In a year with below-average wildfire danger, only some regions, such as the Balkans and eastern Europe, saw higher risk in winter and spring, especially as wet conditions abruptly turned dry. 
Emissions from wildfires were also among the lowest since recording began 18 years ago, with only southwestern France and the Balkans having above-average emissions. Yet summer, which is the typical peak season for wildfires in the Mediterranean region, brought fire emissions well below the 2003-2019 average. 
France experienced its driest July in more than 60 years, prompting the authorities to limit the use of water in more than two-thirds of the territory. From July 1 to July 28, average precipitation represented only 28 per cent of normal values across the country, making last month the driest July since 1959. 
The southwest and northeast were particularly affected by this significantly prolonged deficit of rains, known as a meteorological drought. As a consequence of this lack of rain, the country's soil is drier than usual, which is impairing the proper development of vegetation. 
The largest French river, the Loire, is currently experiencing a sharp drop in its flow. The prefecture of the department of Maine for example, has put in place many restrictions due to the situation. Waterways have even completely disappeared in the northeast of the country, like the Doubs which is completely dry with the riverbed transformed into grazing ground for cattle. 
Poland is drying out. This spring, the country faced one of its worst droughts in a century, a climate emergency which follows a succession of equally dry periods over the last few years. Temperatures have reached record highs; Polish rivers have reached record lows. And experts have been left worrying about the future. We have a problem in understanding what climate change is, what a water shortage or a water management problem is. 
The municipal authorities are implementing the idea of production of the spring water with the aim of taking the advantage of the excess of it that is extracted. Putting the water into bottles and selling it as local spring water is an effective way of dealing with this. Officials say the water contains a similar amount of minerals to water already available on the market, and sales could start in just two years. They are calling it their own response to climate change. 
Experts see a more complex picture of water usage in Poland. The recent severe droughts – last year was the country’s hottest since records began – have exposed the extent of the problem. “We had a big deficit of water from the very beginning.” The increasing threat from climate change has also been exacerbated by water mismanagement. 
Over the decades, Polish rivers have been regulated and areas sealed off, with places for water storage removed and concreted over. And, though the drought conditions might have improved since spring, this has combined with intense rainfall in the last few weeks to create a whole different set of challenges. This means that the threat of drought is also sticking around: the water is simply not penetrating deep into the ground. The complicated situation around water usage has prompted criticism of the project. 
City authorities say that alongside tackling water waste, the sale of their tap water could also address flooding risks, by replacing the current policy of draining off unsold water into local rivers. First, it perfectly fits the Polish phobia of tap water. This attitude was fully justified in 1980, when drinking tap water was a real health hazard. 
Nowadays water quality in natural water bodies is generally better. Awareness, however, has not kept up with the times, he says, and Poles continue to buy bottled water. If the project does live up to its aims in teaching people that water is valuable, then this will certainly be a step forward for Poland. More practical, long-term change, the type which could really improve Polish water issues - might be harder to achieve. 
Australian researchers have warned that drought-affected rivers could experience reduced flows indefinitely even after the drought has broken in a study which found more than a third of Victorian water catchments have not fully recovered from the millennium drought. The millennium drought ran from 1996 to 2010 and was the longest uninterrupted period of low rainfall in south-east Australia since 1900. Researchers analyzed up to 40 years of stream-flow data from 161 catchments in Victoria and found that 37% had not recovered from the drought by mid 2017. The worst affected catchments were in central and western Victoria, but Peterson said neighboring catchments could behave “quite differently”. The study did not find any indicators of what made a system less likely to recover from drought, or how to help recovery. 
More than 100 fires were burning in the Australian states of Queensland and New South Wales on Saturday, with the nation's weather bureau forecasting little reprieve for firefighters due to dry conditions caused by drought and little rainfall over winter. 
Firefighters battled strong winds and fast-moving blazes as they worked to contain out-of-control bushfires that have destroyed at least 21 homes across two states on the country's east coast. 
In the north-eastern state of Queensland, 17 homes had been destroyed, with the risk posed by fires remaining high for several days despite temperatures cooling. In New South Wales, Australia's most populous state, more than 65 bush and grass fires were burning on Saturday, with four properties lost in the town, in the state's north. The first week of the Australian spring hasn't historically been a period of high fire danger but the country's east coast has suffered through two years of below average rainfall, creating drought conditions in wide parts of the country. Manitoba farmer Chuck Fossay has never seen his fields this dry. As he scoops up a handful of black top soil, it runs through his fingers like sand. Farming near Starbuck, Man about 20 minutes west of Winnipeg, Fossay is trying to get his canola into the ground. He's planting a little deeper this year, hoping to find moisture so the seeds can germinate and start growing. He hopes that with some well-timed rain, he can still salvage a near-average crop but with conditions this dry, he said it's likely compromised before it's even planted. 
Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada considers southwestern Manitoba and southeastern Saskatchewan to be under "extreme drought" conditions, while most of the rest of Prairies are also considered to be experiencing moderate drought. Also enormous is the potential impact on Canada's economy. If these conditions persist, it won't just be farmers hit hard. For consumers, it can mean higher grocery prices. Water is also a critical resource in the resource and energy sectors; potash mining, oil production and hydroelectricity rely on it. 
Drought and dry conditions can also threaten the water supply as rivers dry up and lake levels drop. There's a lot of small communities, rural communities that have a less than reliable water supply. So, they might get their water, for example, from a shallow well, they might get their water from a reservoir and those water supplies are being depleted, said a professor and researcher with the University of Regina's Prairie Adaptation Research Collaborative. Already, one community in southern Manitoba has started restricting water use, asking residents to cut their consumption by 25 per cent. The province has also put a ban on campfires and access to back country trails in drought-affected areas, activities that have been extremely popular during the pandemic. 
Near the Ontario border, a forest fire has already cause damage in provincial Park. Close to the border, Bill Campbell is worried about his own farm, but he's also hearing concerns from farmers across the province. 
Campfires are forbidden, dozens of hiking trails are closed and backcountry travel is banned across broad swaths of Manitoba due to risk of wildfires. 
Manitoba Conservation and Climate enacted sweeping fire restrictions Thursday intended to prevent people from travelling through or camping in all provincial parks south of the 53rd parallel, two provincial wildlife management areas and large tracts of Crown land on either side of Lake Winnipeg's northern basin. The ban affects travelers on foot, bikes, ATVs and in boats. 
The area affected by the fire restrictions covers thousands of square kilometers, mostly in a broad curve of the province that extends from the Ontario border to the Saskatchewan border west of Duck Mountain Provincial Park. 
There are drought conditions across much of southern Manitoba, which can allow wildfires to spread out of control quickly and challenge the ability to fight multiple fires at the same time, the provincial wildfire service stated in a news release. The fire-restriction area also includes the Lauder Sand Hills and Mars Hills wildlife management areas and provincial forests abutting restricted parks. Backcountry travel is forbidden and backcountry camping is banned in most of Manitoba's most popular provincial parks, including Whiteshell, Hecla, Spruce Woods, Turtle Mountain and Duck Mountain. Backcountry water access by canoe or motorized boats is also forbidden, although landing and launching is allowed along developed shorelines. Mountain-bike and equestrian trails are also closed. Most of the province's hiking trails are closed, including the popular Spirit Sands in Spruce Woods, the Mantario Trail in the Whiteshell, and all but two trails in Birds Hill Park northeast of Winnipeg. 
A full list of trail closures is posted on the provincial parks' website. A handful of trails remain open near developed campgrounds and town sites within provincial parks. The Toniata seasonal campground in the Whiteshell, located near a recent fire, is closed. The Equestrian and Canoe Landing campgrounds in Spruce Woods Provincial Park are also closed. The province is also restricting burning permits in many areas. 
Open fires were already banned in several municipalities, including St. Clements. Firefighters have managed to contain a large wildfire in southeastern Manitoba before it could spread further, but are still working on putting out hot spots in the area. On Thursday, a blaze in the southern part of Whiteshell Provincial Park, near the community of Toniata on the northern shore of Falcon Lake, was about 80 hectares, or about 198 acres according to an email from the provincial government. Since then, crews have managed to knock the fire down to 50 hectares, or about 123 acres, and are making progress on extinguishing it, said Dave Schafer, director of the Manitoba Wildfire Service. 
The wildfire near Toniata in southeast Manitoba was at an estimated 80 hectares as of late Wednesday. Crews have since knocked it down to about 50 hectares, says the head of Manitoba Wildfire Service. 
The fire damaged about a half dozen trailers and RVs being kept in a storage compound, but no other properties were damaged, he said. Crews have also managed to contain a wildfire near the RM of Piney in southeast Manitoba that started last weekend. Schafer said crews will likely be there for a couple more days to put out hot spots but said the blaze is under control. The province announced Thursday it was banning campfires and backcountry camping while also closing several trails due to the risk of wildfires. 
The ban applies to travelers on foot, bikes, ATVs and in boats, and covers thousands of square kilometers, mostly in a broad curve of the province that extends from the Ontario border to the Saskatchewan border west of Duck Mountain Provincial Park. With conditions so dry in Manitoba this year, the province doesn't want to risk any human-caused fires, he said. The restrictions are also meant to keep people out of harm's way if a wildfire were to start close to where they were hiking or backcountry camping, he said. He says he thinks the restrictions will be in place for at least another week, depending on whether Manitoba sees much precipitation. The news is disappointing to hiking enthusiasts but understandable given how dry conditions have been this year, said Jaime Manness, the founder of Hike Manitoba. While she wasn't surprised by the closures, she's never seen these many trails closed at one time before. The restrictions apply to all provincial parks south of the 53rd parallel, two provincial wildlife management areas and large tracts of Crown land on either side of Lake Winnipeg's northern basin. 
A fire along the Red River filled the area near Breezy Point, Man, with smoke through the weekend. Officials with the RM of St. Clements said the fire started east of the Red River on Crown land some time Saturday afternoon. A Manitoba spokesperson said crews are monitoring the large fire in the Libau Marsh area north of Selkirk, and are working with local communities. As of Sunday afternoon, the fire was still burning, sending thick black smoke into the sky. Fire crews are still determining the cause and size of the fire. St. Clements CAO Deepak Joshi said provincial crews are monitoring the fire in helicopters, and the East Selkirk Fire Department is doing what it can to help out. He said the area where the fire is burning is heavy brush, and can't be reached by roads or paths. Chris Heald is with the Manitoba Wildlife Federation, a not-for-profit group that works with provincial conservation. He was fishing with his son Saturday when he saw the flames on the bank across from the Breezy Point boat launch. That's when he called a conservation officer he knew, and gave the location. They quickly picked up the local fire department and toured the area and assessed it with them, said Heald. It was really quick. Like within an hour I think they were there and assessing the fire to see if it could burn in different directions. 
The province announced Thursday it was banning campfires and backcountry camping while also closing several trails due to the risk of wildfires. Most of southern Manitoba is under some sort of burning restriction as of Sunday. The smoke along the Red River caught the attention of several people driving, fishing and living nearby. 
Clandeboye fire chief Ed Paskaruk told CBC News his department received two calls around 4:30 p.m. Saturday about the incident, which he deferred to the East Selkirk crews. A third call did come in around 7:30 p.m. Saturday, however, about a small grassfire near Netley Creek at the end of Breezy Point Road. Paskaruk said that was caused by young adults, and the fire was quickly put out. Meanwhile, the RM of Piney continues to be under a state of emergency as provincial fire crews work to get a week-old wildfire under control. That fire is burning between Sandilands and Woodridge, Man. Officials say as of Sunday, it's maintained, but not under control. The volunteer fire department tried to give them any support they could, such as bringing in water, and giving them directions on where the valuable assets were, where the houses were and so forth. Wildfires in different parts of Manitoba are causing air quality issues. 
On Sunday, Environment Canada issued air quality statements for areas near Hecla, Dauphin, McCreary and Swan River. 
The statement warns smokes from wildfires burning northeast of Dauphin and in the Lake St. Martin area is making it hard to breathe and reducing visibility in some areas. The statement notes people at high risk of health problems includes older adults, young children, pregnant women, people with chronic conditions and those living with a COVID-19 infection. Jacqueline Patron is used to seeing trains slide by her backyard at the north edge of Regina. But last week, the train may have left more than a lonely prairie beat. Just minutes after it passed north of Winnipeg Street, a grass fire started. Neighbors began fighting the fire. A fire truck came, too, and put out the fire. Fire officials are still looking into the exact cause, so they cannot confirm whether or not the train sparked the blaze. Two other grass fires are also under investigation. No matter the cause, Patron would like to see dry, tall weeds mowed down near tracks and in industrial areas to protect homes like hers on the outskirts of the city. 
A grass fire a week ago on the outskirts of the city was tough to control, and firefighters needed help from the Warman Fire Department. Ralston said it is so dry, that even a spark from welding or grinding has the potential to start an out-of-control fire. He said many R.M.s around the city have a fire ban in place. Todd Lewis, the president of the Agricultural Producers Association of Saskatchewan, said it has not been this dry on his farm near Regina since the 1980s. Lewis said farming practices have changed since those drought years to conserve moisture in the soil. We manage our water better but we still cannot replace rainfall. He said it is especially tough for cattle farmers, as dugout levels are low. Lewis and other farmers are hoping May and June bring rain. John Pomeroy, a water expert with the University of Saskatchewan, said part of the problem is snowfall on the prairies came early in November. Much of the snow simply sublimated back into the atmosphere during snowstorms before it got a chance to melt into the ground. Those numbers are according to Agriculture Canada. 
Southeast Saskatchewan is described as having 'extreme' drought and much of the southern grain belt is classified as severe. Pomeroy said a drought like this in the 1930s would have been devastating, but we’re much better prepared than we used to be. Still he would like to see more shelter belts and preservation of wetlands to keep moisture on the ground. Rivers ravaged by a lengthy drought may not be able to recover, even after the rains return. Seven years after the Millennium drought baked southeastern Australia, a large fraction of the region’s rivers still show no signs of returning to their predrought water flow, researchers report in the May 14 Science. There’s “an implicit assumption that no matter how big a disturbance is, the water will always come back, it’s just a matter of how long it takes,” says Tim Peterson, a hydrologist at Monash University in Melbourne, Australia. “I’ve never been satisfied with that.” 
The years-long drought in southeastern Australia, which began sometime between 1997 and 2001 and lasted until 2010, offered a natural experiment to test this assumption, he says. “It wasn’t the most severe drought” the region has ever experienced, but it was the longest period of low rainfall in the region since about 1900. Peterson and colleagues analyzed annual and seasonal streamflow rates in 161 river basins in the region from before, during and after the drought. By 2017, they found, 37 percent of those river basins still weren’t seeing the amount of water flow that they had predrought. Furthermore, of those low-flow rivers, the vast majority also show no signs that they might recover in the future, the team found. 
Many of southeastern Australia’s rivers had bounced back from previous droughts, including a severe but brief episode in 1983. But even heavy rains in 2010, marking the end of the Millennium drought, weren’t enough to return these basins to their earlier state. That suggests that there is, after all, a limit to rivers’ resilience. 
Streamflow records going back to 1970 show that few of 161 selected river basins had low water flow levels relative to their normal flow (red line), even after a short drought in 1983 (left gray area). However, the lengthy Millennium drought, which lasted from around 1997 to 2010 (large gray area on the right), may have forced some of the rivers into a low-flow state, a new normal that many have stayed in even after the rains returned in 2010. What’s changed in these river basins isn’t yet clear, Peterson says. The precipitation post drought was similar to predrought precipitation, and the water isn’t ending up in the streamflow, so it must be going somewhere else. The team examined various possibilities: The water infiltrated into the ground and was stored as groundwater, or it never made it to the ground at all, possibly intercepted by leaves, and then evaporating back to the air. But none of these explanations were borne out by studies of these sites, the researchers report. The remaining, and most probable, possibility is that the environment has changed: Water is evaporating from soils and transpiring from plants more quickly than it did predrought. Peterson has long suggested that under certain conditions rivers might not, in fact, recover — and this study confirms that theoretical work, says Peter Troch, a hydrologist at the University of Arizona in Tucson. Enhanced soil evaporation and plant transpiration are examples of such positive feedbacks, processes that can enhance the impacts of a drought. “Until his work, this lack of resilience was not anticipated, and all hydrological models did not account for such possibility,” Troch says. “This study will definitely inspire other researchers to undertake such work,” he notes. “Hopefully we can gain more insight into the functioning of the response to climate change.” Indeed, the finding that rivers have “finite resilience” to drought is of particular concern as the planet warms and lengthier droughts become more likely, writes hydrologist Flavia Tauro in a commentary in the same issue of Science. 
That's because in 2000, the Western U.S. entered the beginning of what scientists call a megadrought, the second worst in 1,200 years, triggered by a combination of a natural dry cycle and human-caused climate change. In the past 20 years, the two worst stretches of drought came in 2003 and 2013, but what is happening right now appears to be the beginning stages of something even more severe. And as we head into the summer dry season, the stage is set for an escalation of extreme dry conditions, with widespread water restrictions expected and yet another dangerous fire season ahead. The above image is a time series of drought in the western states from 2000 to 2021. This latest 2020-2021 spike (on the right) is every bit as impressive as the others, but with one notable difference, this time around, the area of "exceptional drought" is far larger than any other spike, with an aerial coverage of over 20%. As we enter the dry season, there is very little chance conditions will get better, in fact it will likely only get drier. With this in mind, there is little doubt that the drought in the West, especially the Southwest, this summer and fall will be the most intense in recent memory. 
Right now, the U.S. Drought Monitor places 60% of the Western states under severe, extreme or exceptional drought. The reason for the extensive drought is two-fold; long term drying fueled by human-caused climate change and, in the short term, a La Niña event in which cool Equatorial Pacific waters failed to fuel an ample fetch of moisture. Consequently, this past winter's wet season was not very wet at all. In fact, it just added insult to injury, with only 25 to 50% of normal rainfall falling across much of the Southwest and California. This followed one of the driest and hottest summers in modern times, with two historic heat waves, a summer monsoon cycle that simply did not even show up and the worst fire season in modern times. The image below shows what is called the precipitation percentile from October through March, comparing this past six months to the same six-month stretch in each of the past 50 years. The light brown shading shows areas in which the most recent six-month stretch was in the driest 10% of the last 50 years. The dark brown shade indicates the areas which experienced their lowest precipitation on record during this latest six-month span. Almost all areas are covered by one of those two shades. Kelsey Satalino, the Digital Communications Coordinator from NOAA's National Integrated Drought Information System, says that during the past few months, several states including Nevada, Arizona, New Mexico and Utah experienced their most intense period of drought since the Drought Monitor began back in 2000. As a result, soil moisture content is at its lowest levels in at least 120 years. The Pacific Northwest, however, is faring much different this season. 
The northern half of the West experienced normal to even above normal snowfall this winter, on par with what is expected during a typical La Niña event featuring a further north jet stream storm track. That good fortune did not extend further south, however, with most areas now at only 50 to 75% of normal snowpack. Since the West relies on melting snowpack to fill lakes, reservoirs and rivers, like the Colorado, water availability will be limited this summer.
 The Colorado River and its tributaries provide water for around 40 million people and 5 million acres of farmland. The amount of water flowing into Lake Powell, on the Arizona-Utah state line, in the coming months is only expected to be around 45% of the typical amount. 
Lake Meade, on the Arizona-Nevada state line, is only at 40% capacity. But this lack of snowpack is not a one-time issue; it is a trend. Over the past 40 years, snowpack has declined by about 25% over the Western states. Meanwhile, the population continues to increase. Thus, as of late, water demand has been outstripping what mother nature can deliver. In general, these water woes are not expected to improve. While there will be wet years, the overall trend is towards drying. 
Scientists say this is a result of human-caused climate change, which is leading to less reliable rain and warmer temperatures — both consistent with what has been projected by climate computer models. The image below shows a clear trend toward worsening drought since 1900. New research from the U.S. Department of Agriculture shows that over the past several decades, precipitation has become more erratic and dry periods between rain storms have expanded. Even if rain or snow falls heavier, that's less important than consistency. 
Soil moisture and vegetation thrive on precipitation that is spread out more evenly over time, rather than heavy events which tend to run-off, resulting in wasted moisture. At the same time, temperatures across the Western U.S. have increased by a few degrees over the past 50 years. The warmer air provides more heat energy to evaporate moisture from vegetation and soil. As a result, the ground continues to dry out, providing flammable fuel for escalating fire seasons. In fact, 2020 was the worst fire season in the modern history of the West, with California and Colorado experiencing their largest fires on record. As can be seen in the below visual, the intensity of fires and acres burned tracks with increasing temperatures. Simply put, the warmer and drier it gets, the larger fires become. 
Because of a warming climate, fire season in the West is now two to three months longer than it was just a few decades ago. That means, with the dry season already getting underway in the West, the time to prepare for wildfires is fast approaching. 
The water crisis along the California-Oregon border went from dire to catastrophic this week as federal regulators shut off irrigation water to farmers from a critical reservoir and said they would not send extra water to dying salmon downstream or to a half-dozen wildlife refuges that harbor millions of migrating birds each year. In what is shaping up to be the worst water crisis in generations, the US Bureau of Reclamation said it will not release water this season into the main canal that feeds the bulk of the massive Klamath Reclamation Project, marking a first for the 114-year-old irrigation system. 
The agency announced last month that hundreds of irrigators would get dramatically less water than usual, but a worsening drought picture means water will be completely shut off instead. The entire region is in extreme or exceptional drought, according to federal monitoring reports, and Oregon’s Klamath County is experiencing its driest year in 127 years. “This year’s drought conditions are bringing unprecedented hardship to the communities of the Klamath Basin,” said Reclamation Deputy Commissioner Camille Calimlim Touton, calling the decision one of “historic consequence.” “Reclamation is dedicated to working with our water users, tribes and partners to get through this difficult year and developing long-term solutions for the basin.” The canal, a major component of the federally operated Klamath Reclamation Project, funnels Klamath River water from the Upper Klamath Lake just north of the Oregon-California border to more than 130,000 acres, where generations of ranchers and farmers have grown hay, alfalfa and potatoes and grazed cattle. Only one irrigation district within the 200,000-acre project will receive any water from the Klamath River system this growing season, and it will have a severely limited supply, the Klamath Water Users Association said in a statement. Some other farmers rely on water from a different river, and they will also have a limited supply. “This just couldn’t be worse,” said Klamath Irrigation District president. “The impacts to our family farms and these rural communities will be off the scale.” At the same time, the agency said it would not release any so-called “flushing flows” from the same dam on the Upper Klamath Lake to bolster water levels downstream in the lower Klamath River. The river is key to the survival of coho salmon, which are listed as threatened under the Endangered Species Act. In better water years the pulses of water help keep the river cool and turbulent, conditions that help the fragile species. The fish are central to the diet and culture of the Yurok Tribe, California’s largest federally recognized tribe. 
The tribe said this week that low flows from drought and from previous mismanagement of the river by the federal agency was causing a die-off of juvenile salmon from a bacterial disease that flourishes when water levels are low. Yurok fish biologists who have been testing the baby salmon in the lower Klamath River are finding that 70% of the fish are already dead in the traps used to collect them. “Right now, the Klamath River is full of dead and dying fish on the Yurok Reservation,” said Frankie Myers, vice chairman of the Yurok Tribe. “This disease will kill most of the baby salmon in the Klamath, which will impact fish runs for many years to come. For salmon people, a juvenile fish kill is an absolute worst-case scenario.” Irrigators, meanwhile, reacted with disbelief as the news of a water shut-off in the canals spread. A newsletter published by the Klamath Water Users Association, which represents many of the region’s farmers, blared the headline, “Worst Day in the History of the Klamath Project.” Farmers reported already seeing dust storms that obscured vision for 100 yards (91 meters), and they worried about their wells running dry. About 30 protesters showed up Thursday at the head gates of the main dam to protest the shut-off and ask the irrigation district to defy federal orders and divert the water. The Herald and News reported that they were with a group called People’s Rights, a far-right organization founded by anti-government activist Ammon Bundy. Oregon Gov. Kate Brown and California Gov. Gavin Newsom, both Democrats, have declared drought emergencies in the region, and the Bureau of Reclamation has set aside $15 million in immediate aid for irrigators. Another $10 million will be available for drought assistance from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. 
The seasonal allocations are the region’s most dramatic development since irrigation water was all but cut off to hundreds of farmers in 2001 amid another severe drought, the first-time farmers’ interests took a backseat to fish and tribes. The crisis made the rural farming region hundreds of miles from any major city a national political flashpoint and became a touchstone for Republicans who used the crisis to take aim at the Endangered Species Act, with one GOP lawmaker calling the irrigation shutoff a “poster child” for why changes were needed. A “bucket brigade” protest attracted 15,000 people who scooped water from the Klamath River and passed it, hand over hand, to a parched irrigation canal. The situation in the Klamath Basin was set in motion more than a century ago, when the U.S. government began draining a network of shallow lakes and marshlands, redirecting the natural flow of water and constructing hundreds of miles of canals and drainage channels to create farmland. Homesteads were offered by lottery to World War II veterans. The project turned the region into an agricultural powerhouse, but permanently altered an intricate water system that spans hundreds of miles and from southern Oregon to Northern California. In 1988, two species of sucker fish were listed as endangered under federal law. Less than a decade later, coho salmon that spawn downstream from the reclamation project, in the lower Klamath River, were listed as threatened. The water necessary to sustain the coho salmon downstream comes from Upper Klamath Lake — the main holding tank for the farmers’ irrigation system. At the same time, the sucker fish in the lake need at least 1 to 2 feet (30 to 60 centimeters) of water covering the gravel beds they use as spawning grounds. The drought also means farmers this summer will not flush irrigation water into a network of six national wildlife refuges that are collectively called the Klamath National Wildlife Refuge Complex. The refuges, nicknamed the Everglades of the West, support up to 80% of the birds that migrate on the Pacific Flyway. The refuges also support the largest concentrations of wintering Bald Eagles in the lower 48 states.