A powerful typhoon blew over Japan's southernmost islands early Tuesday on course for Japan's main southern island and later the Korean Peninsula. Warnings issued for the area around Okinawa, home to US military bases, described gusts strong enough to cause some homes to collapse and extremely high tides. The Japanese Meteorological Agency (JMA) said Typhoon Maysak was expected to later make landfall on Kyushu, Japan's main southern island, bringing strong winds and rain, then hit South Korea by Thursday. Maysak had maximum winds of 162 kph at its center at daybreak, according to the JMA. The typhoon was forecast to strengthen slightly as it headed toward Kyushu. Last week, a typhoon that hit the Korean Peninsula caused minor damage in both nations.
Japan's southern islands are often been hit by mudslides and flooding during typhoon season. 
Natural disasters in the past two months caused Vietnam 30 trillion dong ($1.3 billion) in economic damage and killed 192 people, with 57 still missing, authorities said on Wednesday, with its central provinces bearing most of the losses. 
Vietnam’s central region has had a tough year, with its important tourism industry crippled by the coronavirus pandemic long before the arrival of nine typhoons that wiped out crops and damaged homes of hundreds of thousands of people. 
The two-month toll surpassed losses for the whole of last year, when disasters killed 132 people and caused 6.2 trillion in damage, official data showed. “We embraced nine typhoons and two tropical depressions in just two months, from mid-September to mid-November. Those abnormal weather events cost our country 30 trillion dong,” said Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Nguyen Xuan Cuong in a government statement. Vietnam’s economic growth is expected to slow to 2%-3% this year after expanding 7.02% in 2019 due to the wider impact of the coronavirus pandemic and natural disasters. 
Vietnam is prone to destructive storms and flooding due to its long coastline. About 11.8 million people in Vietnam’s coastal provinces are exposed to the threat of intense flooding, with 35% of settlements located on crowded and eroding coastlines, a World Bank report said in October. 
A super typhoon slammed into the eastern Philippines with ferocious winds early Sunday and about a million people have been evacuated in its projected path, including in the capital where the main international airport was ordered closed. “There are so many people who are really in vulnerable areas,” said Ricardo Jalad, who heads the government’s disaster-response agency. “We’re expecting major damage.” 
Typhoon Goni hit the island province of Catanduanes at dawn with sustained winds of 225 kilometers (140 miles) per hour and gusts of 280 kph (174 mph) — equivalent to a Category 5 hurricane. It was blowing west toward densely populated regions, including Manila, and rain-soaked provinces still recovering from a typhoon that hit a week ago and left at least 22 dead. “Within the next 12 hours, catastrophic violent winds and intense to torrential rainfall associated with the region of the eyewall and inner rain bands of the typhoon will be experienced,” the Philippine weather agency said in an urgent advisory. It said Catanduanes and four other provinces will be first hit, including Albay, where tens of thousands of villagers have been moved to safety, especially near the active Mayon volcano, where mudflows have caused deaths during past storms. Residents have been warned of likely landslides, massive flooding, storm surges of more than 5 meters (16 feet) and ferocious wind that can blow away shanties. 
One of the most powerful typhoons in the world this year, Goni has evoked memories of Typhoon Haiyan in November 2013, which left more than 7,300 people dead and missing, flattened entire villages, swept ships inland and displaced more than 5 million in the central Philippines. Jalad said nearly a million people have been preemptively moved into emergency shelters, mostly schools and government buildings. He warned of storm surges that could inundate coastal villages, including in Manila Bay.
Forecasters said the typhoon’s eye may hit or graze metropolitan Manila, the densely populated capital region of more than 13 million, late Sunday to early Monday and asked the public to brace for the worst. The typhoon may considerably weaken after it hits the Sierra Madre mountain range, then cross the main northern Luzon island toward the South China Sea. 
Manila’s main airport was ordered shut down for 24 hours from Sunday to Monday and airlines cancelled dozens of international and domestic flights. The military and national police, along with the coast guard and firefighters, have been put on full alert. About 1,000 COVID-19 patients were moved to hospitals and hotels from tent quarantine and treatment centers in the capital and the northern province of Bulacan, Jalad said. More emergency shelters would be opened than usual to avoid congestion that can rapidly spark infections. 
The war-like typhoon preparations will further strain government resources, which have been drained with months of coronavirus outbreaks that prompted the government to set up isolation and treatment centers when hospitals were overwhelmed and provide aid to more than 20 million poor Filipinos. The Philippines has reported more than 380,000 confirmed COVID-19 cases, the second-highest in Southeast Asia, with 7,221 deaths. 
Displaced villagers may have to stay longer in evacuation centers even after Goni exits Tuesday due to another storm brewing in the Pacific that may affect the Philippines in a few days, Jalad said. 
The Philippines is lashed by about 20 typhoons and storms a year. It’s also located in the so-called Pacific “Ring of Fire,” a seismically active region around the Pacific where earthquakes and volcanic eruptions are common and makes the impoverished Southeast Asian nation of more than 100 million people one of the world’s most disaster-prone. 
Philippine officials on Saturday ordered evacuation of thousands of residents in the southern part of the main Luzon island as a category 5 storm that is the world’s strongest this year approaches the Southeast Asian nation. 
Typhoon Goni, with 215 kph sustained winds and gusts of up to 265 kph, will make landfall on Sunday as the strongest typhoon to hit the Philippines since Haiyan that killed more than 6,300 people in 2013. Pre-emptive evacuations have started in coastal and landslide-prone communities in the provinces of Camarines Norte and Camarines Sur, while Albay provincial government would order residents in risky areas to leave their homes, Gremil Naz, a local disaster official, told DZBB radio station. “The strength of this typhoon is no joke.” 
Typhoon Molave last week killed 22 people, mostly through drowning in provinces south of the capital Manila, which is also in the projected path of Goni, the 18th tropical storm in the country. 
Authorities are facing another hurdle as social distancing needs to be imposed in evacuation centers to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The Philippines has the second highest COVID-19 infections and deaths in Southeast Asia, next only to Indonesia. Relief goods, heavy machinery and personal protective equipment are already positioned in key areas, Filipino Grace America, mayor of Infanta town in Quezon province, told DZBB radio. “But because of the COVID-19 pandemic, our funds for calamity concerns and expenses are insufficient.” Local officials canceled port operations and barred fishers from setting sail. Typhoon Goni, moving westward at 20 kph from the Pacific Ocean, will bring intense rains over the capital and 14 provinces nearby on Saturday evening, and threats of floods and landslides. 
A powerful typhoon damaged building, flooded roads and knocked out power to thousands of homes in South Korea on Monday after battering southern Japanese islands. More than 20 people were injured.
The Korea Meteorological Administration warned of “very heavy rain and very strong winds” as Typhoon Haishen, packing maximum winds of 126 kilometers (78) miles per hour, made landfall in the southeastern port city of Ulsan. The weather agency said the typhoon, the third to hit the peninsula in as many weeks, was weakening and will likely be downgraded to a tropical storm within 24 hours. 
Cars struggled to navigate flooded roads in Ulsan and other coastal cities such as Busan, Sokcho and Gangneung. Emergency workers scrambled to clean up toppled trees and damaged traffic signs, buildings, and other structures. The Ministry of the Interior and Safety said a person in Busan was slightly injured after a car flipped in strong winds, but it didn’t immediately provide further reports of casualties. 
At least 318 flights in and out of the southern island province of Jeju and across the mainland were cancelled, according to the Korea Airports Corporation. Some bridges and railroad sections were shut down, thousands of fishing boats and other vessels were moved to safety, and more than 1,600 residents in the southern mainland regions were evacuated due to the possibility of landslides and other concerns. Workers as of Monday morning completed restoring power to 11,523 of the 17,620 households that had lost electricity in the southern mainland areas and Jeju. Haishen, which means “sea god” in Chinese, plowed through Okinawa and other southern Japanese islands over the weekend. Traffic was still paralyzed in places; bullet trains were suspended and most domestic flights in and out of southwestern Japanese airports were cancelled Monday. 
Japan’s Fire and Disaster Management Agency said at least 20 people, including two seriously, were injured. As of Monday morning, about half a million homes were still out of power. NHK public TV said four people were missing in Miyazaki. 
The storm by late Monday was expected to reach North Korea’s northeastern region, which was battered by Typhoon Maysak last week, inflicting further pain on an economy ravaged by U.S.-led sanctions, border closures amid the coronavirus pandemic and chronic food shortages. 
The North’s state media said leader Kim Jong Un visited typhoon-stricken areas, fired a top regional official for poor readiness, and promised to send 12,000 workers from capital Pyongyang to help with recovery efforts. The North said Maysak destroyed more than 1,000 houses and inundated public buildings and farmland. It didn’t immediately report any casualties caused by Haishen. 
Maysak damaged roads and buildings and left at least one person dead in South Korea. In addition, a livestock cargo ship sank off Japan’s coast as Maysak passed. Two of its 43 crew members were rescued and one body was recovered before the search was halted because of Haishen. The ship was transporting 5,800 cows from New Zealand to China. 
North Korea’s ruling party is calling for the punishment of officials whose failure to follow orders resulted in “dozens of casualties” during typhoons that lashed the Korean peninsula this week, a state newspaper reported on Saturday. The isolated country has been grappling with torrential rains, floods and typhoons in one of the wettest rainy seasons on record. Rodong Sinmun, an official party newspaper, reported that officials in Wonsan, an eastern coastal city hit especially hard by Typhoon Maysak, and surrounding Kangwon Province did not implement instructions to secure buildings at risk and prepare for a potential evacuation of residents. “Dozens of casualties have occurred … because of red tape and tricks among the city and provincial officials who did not accept the party’s guidelines,” the newspaper said. On Wednesday, state television aired rare live reports of storm surge and torrential rains including from Wonsan, showing a damaged bridge, a flooded square and buildings and a van carrying loudspeakers to broadcast safety warnings. Concerns are growing about further crop damage and food supplies as the impoverished North braces for another, potentially more powerful typhoon, Haishen, which is on track to batter the peninsula’s east coast starting Monday. 
38 North, a U.S. think tank specialized in North Korea, said commercial satellite imagery showed more than 100 military and fishing vessels docked at the eastern port of Sinpo on Friday, much more than the usual 30-40, ahead of the typhoon. But the shipyard, a major submarine base where submarine-launched ballistic missiles have been tested, appears to have suffered little damage from the recent storms, the think tank said. 
An approaching powerful typhoon has left at least one person dead, another missing and prompted the evacuation of more than 100,000 people as a precaution in the eastern and central Philippines, although the unusual summer storm is not expected to blow into land, officials said Monday. 
Typhoon Surigae was about 500 kilometers (310 miles) east of Infanta town in Quezon province on Monday afternoon with sustained winds of 195 kilometers (121 miles) per hour and gusts of up to 240 kph (149 mph). It is forecast to slowly move northwestward and then veer eastward away from the northern Philippines around Thursday. Vicente Malano, administrator of the government weather agency, said a high-pressure area extending from China to Japan was blocking the typhoon from blowing inland. “We’re lucky it’s not going to make landfall because if it hits land, it’s really going to be super devastating,” said Ariel Rojas from the weather agency. The typhoon’s 900-kilometer (560-mile) band of rainclouds and strong winds nevertheless flooded at least 22 villages and caused power outages in four provinces. More than 3,200 people and 43 ferries and cargo ships were stranded in seaports after the coast guard suspended sea travel as the typhoon blew nearer, the government disaster-response agency and the coast guard said. A 79-year-old man died in St. Bernard town in Southern Leyte province after being hit by a falling coconut tree, the Office of Civil Defense said. Another villager in San Jose town in Northern Samar province was missing after he went to a nearby island in a motorboat to secure his farm animals, it said. 
More than 29,300 families or 109,000 people were evacuated to emergency shelters as a precaution in five eastern provinces in the Bicol region, it said. Mayors said they have to open more evacuation centers to ensure social distancing during the pandemic. “It’s really tough, it’s toxic, but we have no choice,” Mayor Ann Gemma Ongjoco of Guinobatan town in Albay province said by telephone. She said even churches were being used to shelter more than 6,100 villagers in her town, including many from communities threatened by mudflows from Mayon, one of the most active volcanoes in the archipelago. 
The Philippines is a coronavirus hotspot in Southeast Asia, with health officials reporting 945,745 infections and 16,048 deaths. About 20 typhoons and storms lash the Philippines each year. It also sits in the so-called Pacific “Ring of Fire,” a seismically sensitive region often hit by earthquakes and volcanic eruptions, making the impoverished nation one of the world’s most disaster-prone countries. 
Hundreds of flights were cancelled in South Korea while North Korea’s leader expressed concern about a possible loss of lives and crops as the countries braced for a fast-approaching typhoon forecast as one of the strongest to hit their peninsula this year. 
Packing a maximum wind speed of 155 kilometers (96 miles) per hour, Typhoon Bavi was already lashing South Korea’s southern resort island of Jeju on Wednesday afternoon, flooding roads, toppling trees, ripping off signboards and knocking down lampposts as it passed over waters off the island’s western shores. There were no immediate reports of casualties. 
South Korea’s weather agency said the typhoon would begin affecting the mainland at night before making landfall in western North Korea early Thursday. The agency warned of possible severe damage caused by very strong winds and heavy rainfall. In Jeju, strong winds and rain knocked out power to hundreds of homes and damaged buildings, trees, streetlamps, telephone poles, road barriers and signboards, the Ministry of the Interior and Safety said. 
More than 480 domestic flights in and out of Jeju and the southern mainland city of Busan were cancelled as of Wednesday evening. South Korean authorities also shut public parks and sea bridges and moved hundreds of fishing boats and other vessels, the ministry said. In the capital, Seoul, and other cities, health workers dismantled at least 75 makeshift coronavirus testing stations over worries that the tents and booths might not withstand strong winds. North Korea’s official Korean Central News Agency said that during a ruling party meeting on Tuesday, the country’s leader, Kim Jong Un, called for thorough preparations to minimize casualties and damage from the typhoon. The storm comes weeks after torrential rains caused flooding and massive damage to homes and crops in North Korea, inflicting further pain to an economy ravaged by pandemic-linked border closures and U.S.-led sanctions over the North’s nuclear program. KCNA said earlier that a typhoon warning was issued in most areas of the country, with officials moving fishing boats and applying protective measures to buildings, farms and railroads. 
In China, authorities suspended ferry services across the Yellow Sea from the northern port of Dalian to the cities of Weihai and Yantai on the Shandong Peninsula as the typhoon closed in on the region. The government of Dalian, a city of 7 million people, urged people to stay indoors as much as possible on Wednesday and Thursday. 
With sustained winds of more than 310 km/h, or 195 mph, as it approached the Philippines, Super Typhoon Haiyan has hit land in the past few hours with terrifying force. This makes it the strongest tropical cyclone to make landfall in history. 
Haiyan was earlier reported to be the most intense tropical storm in this area since Super Typhoon Tip (1979), and may even have exceeded the force of Tip. It had already been recognized to be one of the four most intense storms on modern record. 
Preliminary satellite estimates of the central pressure at the eye of the storm have been reported at around 860 mbar, which if confirmed would make Haiyan the strongest storm ever recorded. Its intensity is recorded as Category 5 (maximum) on the scale for tropical storms and 8.0 (maximum) on the Dvorak scale of intensity. 
Tropical storms such as Haiyan are known as typhoons in the Pacific, but are the same as the storms labelled hurricanes or cyclones elsewhere. Haiyan is the strongest tropical storm since Hurricane Allen (1980) which hit the Caribbean. It appears to have surpassed Hurricane Camille (1969) in making landfall with wind speeds at Category 5 level. Already, the reasons for such extreme weather are being scrutinized. The surface water, as well as deeper water, temperatures of the Western Pacific have provided huge amounts of energy for the storm to absorb, fueling Haiyan’s intensification. Along with devastating storms, the typhoon will bring a deluge of rain and storm surge, threatening coastal areas of the Philippines with flood and destruction. As the storm progresses across the islands it is expected to weaken and dissipate, tracking towards Vietnam.
The recent IPCC report on climate change highlighted the risks associated with changes in the patterns and frequency of extreme weather events. While individual storms such as Haiyan cannot be directly attributed to such changes, the statistics of such storms will help build a picture of how climate change is affecting the planet. Climatologists are keen to develop models that provide accurate risk factors for tropical cyclones. 
As the planet and particularly the oceans heat, simple physics indicates that the energy stored is likely to increase the intensity and frequency of devastating storms like Haiyan, at great cost to coastal communities. 
A weeks-long barrage of destructive storms in Southeast Asia has claimed hundreds of lives and is stretching aid funding and disaster responses amid the coronavirus pandemic. 
Typhoon Vamco is the latest storm to strike both the Philippines and Vietnam since early October. Vamco hit central Vietnam on 15 November, bringing heavy rains and metre-high storm surges to areas already dealing with severe floods and landslides. The storm, known as Ulysses in the Philippines, churned across the main island of Luzon days earlier, submerging whole towns with roof-high flooding in some areas. 
Philippine authorities say at least 80 people are dead or missing after Vamco as of Monday, and some 320,000 people have left their homes. At least 239 people are dead or missing from Vietnam’s disasters. “Each time they start rebuilding their lives and livelihoods, they are pummeled by yet another storm,” said Nguyen Thi Xuan Thu, the head of Vietnam’s Red Cross.
In both countries, Vamco trampled a path set by earlier storms, including early November’s Typhoon Goni. Known as Rolly in the Philippines, it was the most powerful typhoon to hit the country since 2013 – and the strongest anywhere in 2020. Vamco is the fifth major storm to hit the Philippines since early October, and at least the seventh to strike Vietnam. 
The UN’s migration agency, IOM, said the string of storms in the Philippines has stretched aid responses. Vietnam’s Red Cross society describes its weeks-long flood response – expected to last months longer – as one of its biggest relief efforts. The disasters continue while the coronavirus pandemic surges. Disaster management authorities in the Philippines were forced to lift coronavirus health safety measures in hard-hit Cagayan Province. 
The storms have sparked multimillion-dollar aid appeals in several countries still digging out from severe floods. Even before Vamco hit, the UN said at least 2.7 million people would need urgent aid in the Philippines, Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos. 
Flooding is common during Asia’s varied monsoon seasons, and tropical cyclones worsen these risks. But disaster responders say the rapid pummeling of storms in such a short period has been unprecedented. Climate change is making today’s disasters more intense and unpredictable, though the ability to link global heating to individual disasters is evolving.
Scientists with the World Weather Attribution project will try to measure the role of human-caused climate change in Vietnam’s extreme rains, the Red Cross announced this month. Earlier “extreme event attribution” research found the marks of climate change across a range of disasters, from a recent heat wave in Siberia to off-season flooding in Bangladesh. Both the Philippines and Vietnam are among the 10 countries worst hit by climate disasters over the last 20 years, according to the environmental analysis group Germanwatch.
On Monday, Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte pledged to create a “build back better task force” to oversee typhoon recovery, though it’s unclear if this would be replicating existing disaster management bodies. Evan as communities dig out after Vamco, new disaster threats are on the horizon: Philippine authorities say there could be up to three more storms by the end of the year. 
Thousands have been moved to evacuation centers, which are themselves flooded, resulting in difficult health and hygiene conditions for the displaced people, primarily women, children and elderly. Health centers have also been damaged, leaving without to access basic health care services. 
According to the Resident Coordinator’s Office, UN agencies and partners are developing and will release a multi-sector response plan, within the coming days, to support emergency relief efforts.  In the immediate term, UNICEF has mobilized to provide emergency water, nutrition, sanitation, education and protection support, it said in the statement. It is also coordinating with Government agencies and humanitarian actors to reach the most vulnerable and those most affected. The Vietnamese army has also deployed troops and vehicles for search and rescue missions. 
Cylcone Tauktae, an extremely severe cyclonic storm (ESCS) that passed Mumbai shortly after noon on Monday, was the worst cyclone to have skirted the city in at least four decades, leading to a cancellation of flights, bringing sections of the public transportation network to a halt, and disrupting the work-from-home schedules of residents due to power cuts and poor cellphone connectivity. 
The India Meteorological Department (IMD) confirmed that Tauktae began crossing Mumbai’s latitude at about 12.37pm on Monday, at a distance of about 120-130km from the coast. Independent experts said the cyclone, which intensified into an extremely severe storm early on Monday, was likely the first such category of storm to venture this close to the port city since 1891. By comparison, cyclone Nisarga, a severe cyclonic storm (a category of lesser intensity) that made landfall in the state’s Raigad district last June, glanced 110 km off Mumbai’s coast, but left the city largely unscathed. “It can be safely assumed that in the satellite era -- from 1980 onwards -- Tauktae is the most intense tropical cyclone to venture so close to Mumbai. It is a Category 4 system, as per global standards of the Joint Typhoon Warning Centre whereas Nisarga was a significantly weaker Category 1 tropical cyclone, which in turn had also become weaker by the time it made landfall at the Diveagar coast in Maharashtra,” Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist associated with the University of Reading, United Kingdom, said. When it achieved peak intensity off the Mumbai coast, the cyclone itself was travelling at a speed of 120 knots, or 222kmph, as it travelled north-westward toward Gujarat, unleashing gale winds touching upwards of 100kmph in the city. 
Tauktae’s intensity was felt across the city as residents shared videos of fallen trees, broken power cables and choppy waves in the Arabian Sea as wind speeds of 114 km/hour were reported at around 2pm by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s weather station at Afghan Church in Colaba.
Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) closed all flight operations starting 11am on Monday and diverted at least seven planes through the day. Airlines cancelled services to Mumbai, including 34 arrivals and 22 departures, and the airport resumed services late Monday night. During the day, nearly 20 local trains were cancelled and 50 delayed owing to the disruption in both the Central and Western Railway suburban train networks, due to water-logging and tree falls, while the Brihan Mumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) diverted buses on 72 routes in the city due to water-logging in 19 arterial roads. 
Eight people were injured in 26 incidents of wall collapses in three separate incidents, while 17 incidents of short circuit and at least 479 tree falls – 158 in south Mumbai alone -- were reported in the city. A wall of house collapsed, injuring four members of a family in Borivali east, while in Andheri, a woman was injured when a slab of a wall fell over her. According to the BMC, the woman’s condition is stable, and she is admitted to a private hospital. 
Two people were feared to have drowned in two separate incidents in Mahim and Madh, where 10 people were stuck in their boats due to the rough seas and coast guard had to go to their aid, the BMC disaster management cell confirmed. Some of the survivors swam back to safety. 
Power supply was interrupted in many areas such as Andheri west, Vile Parle, Kalina, Versova and Kurla. “To ensure the continuity of power supply and mitigate any disruptions owing to the cyclone Tauktae and heavy rains, team AEML took all the necessary precautions. Our specialized Quick Response Teams were on standby and ensured, wherever there were power disruption complaints, the supply was restored with the minimum interruption,” a spokesperson for Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML) which distributes power to the suburbs, said. 
Eastern suburbs such as Mulund, Bhandup and Vikhroli, which the state-owned Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) supplies power to, were also affected. The company later said in a statement said that disruptions were experienced in other districts too, including Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri, and that it aimed to restore normalcy by late Monday with a focus on Covid Care Centres and vaccination centers. 
BMC officials said that south Mumbai was the most hit as the cyclone went from south to north further towards Gujarat, leading to severe water-logging in areas including Oval Maidan, Warden Road, Colaba as well as low-lying areas such as Hindmata, King’s Circle, and Dadar TT in central parts of the city. Civic activist Nikhil Desai from Dadar said: “Like every year even this year we had water logging in King’s Circle and Hindmata area. Though the rainfall was not expected this early but this shows that we are not prepared for the monsoon like every year. I do not know how much underground rainwater storage tank work is completed, but it is the truth that minutes of rainfall resulted in Hindmata and King Circle’s Gandhi Market got flooded.” 
Thick mud and debris coated many villages around the Philippine capital on Friday after a typhoon killed at least 42 people and caused extensive flooding that sent people fleeing to their roofs, officials said. Troops, police, coast guard and disaster-response teams rescued tens of thousands of people, including many who flooded radio and TV networks and social media with desperate pleas for help. 
Floodwaters receded and the weather cleared in many areas after Typhoon Vamco blew out into the South China Sea on Friday, but the military said it was still rescuing people trapped in some flooded communities. 
Amphibious assault vehicles usually used in counter-insurgency operations were deployed for the rescue work, military chief of staff Gen. Gilbert Gapay said in a meeting with disaster-response officials. “We’ll continue to look for the missing, help in damage assessment,” Gapay said. The national police reported that the death toll had risen to at least 42 with 20 missing. The government’s main disaster-response agency, which waits for provincial reports and follows a laborious process of verifying casualties, reported a much lower death count, causing confusion. Among the dead were at least 12 villagers who were dug out from mud and rockslides in the northern provinces of Cagayan and Nueva Vizcaya, police said. 
After slamming into northeastern Quezon province, Vamco gained strength with sustained winds of 155 kilometers (96 miles) per hour and gusts of up to 255 kph (158 mph). It blew north of metropolitan Manila overnight Wednesday, toppling trees and power poles, swelling rivers, flooding residential communities and setting off landslides and storm surges. In hard-hit Marikina city in the capital region and the towns of Rodriguez and Cainta in nearby Rizal province, several villages were inundated by water that reached the second and third floors of many houses, prompting hundreds of residents to flee to their roofs and call TV and radio networks or post desperate messages on social media. The panic was exacerbated by widespread power outages and loss of internet access. 
Videos of Marikina showed a thick coat of muddy water covering roads and staining houses and cars. Residents carried appliances and furniture from their homes and used pails and shovels to remove the mud after the water receded. 
More than 400,000 people were evacuated to higher ground before the typhoon hit, mainly residents of vulnerable coastal and low-lying areas. At least 3.8 million households lost power in the capital and outlying provinces, but crews later restored electricity in many areas. Government offices were closed and most classes were suspended Friday. 
Vamco hit the Philippines on the heels of Typhoon Goni, one of the strongest typhoons in the world this year, which left more than 30 people dead or missing and damaged or destroyed 270,000 houses. Tens of thousands of people were still displaced when Vamco hit. The Philippines is hit by about 20 typhoons and tropical storms each year and also has active seismic faults and volcanoes, making it one of the world’s most disaster-prone countries. 
According to the Mati City LGU, five fishermen were rescued by a passing boat on Saturday, but the rescue was only reported to the City Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office on Tuesday. On May 13, fishermen set sail from the town of Baganga in Davao Oriental, unaware of the impending typhoon. It is said that the fishermen have been floating in the ocean for more than a day after their boat capsized due to the storm. The local government provided assistance to the fishermen, including some food packs. 
When meteorologists issued their forecasts for Typhoon Surigae on Friday, they knew the Category 2-equivalent storm had the potential to intensify quickly. But by Saturday morning, the storm had exceeded forecasters’ wildest expectations, attaining Category 5 status and practically leaping off the scale. 
On Saturday afternoon Eastern U.S. time, the typhoon, which churned ominously close to the Philippines, had 190-mph winds after a bout of extremely rapid intensification, becoming the strongest typhoon, cyclone or hurricane ever observed in the month of April. According to Jeff Masters, a meteorologist for Yale Climate Connections, only four tropical cyclones reliably measured worldwide have featured higher wind speeds. 
Surigae’s pace of strengthening doubled the rate needed to qualify for rapid intensification, and its 190-mph peak winds were stronger than Hurricane Dorian, which ravaged the Bahamas at the start of September 2019. The threshold for Category 5 status is 156 mph. The storm took advantage of sea surface temperatures near 87 degrees and a lack of wind shear, or a change of wind speed and/or direction with height. Wind shear is known to disrupt tropical cyclones and can knock fledgling systems off-kilter. The potential intensity, or theoretical upper bound of strength, of a storm is proportional to the difference between sea surface temperatures and air temperatures high in the atmosphere. Sea-surface and upper-atmospheric temperatures are increasing somewhat in tandem, balancing out and having little impact on potential intensity. However, potential intensity is also correlated with how much energy is contained in air above the sea surface thanks to its temperature and humidity. That value is increasing in a world warmed by human-induced climate change, accounting in part for the link between a warming climate and an uptick in the frequency of high-end storms. It’s expected that the future will hold more high-end hurricanes and typhoons, since the environment can support stronger storms. It’s not just a theory. A pronounced shift toward more-intense storms has already been noted globally, especially in the Atlantic in recent years. “The global average proportion of intense tropical cyclone has increased since 1979,” the March report on tropical cyclones and climate change said, referring to storms Category 3 or higher. 
The Atlantic Basin has recorded seven Category 5 hurricanes in the past five years, a number never recorded previously. They are also occurring not only at unusual times but in unusual places: In September 2019, Hurricane Lorenzo reached Category 5 status farther northeast than any other hurricane on record in the basin. It claimed that record by an incredible margin, reaching Category 5 strength about 600 miles farther east than Isabel and Hugo. Experts have predicted another active Atlantic hurricane season this year. Meanwhile, Surigae on Monday was a low-end Category 4-equivalent “annular” typhoon, meaning its eye had widened and was surrounded by one solid region of strong winds and rain. It’s expected to gradually weaken as it drifts through the open Pacific east of Japan. 
Strong winds and high waves lashed the eastern Philippines on Monday as the strongest typhoon ever recorded in April barreled past in the Pacific Ocean, killing one man and triggering flooding in lower-lying communities, disaster officials said. 
The national weather bureau issued a severe wind and heavy rainfall warning on Monday, saying "destructive typhoon-force winds extend outward up to 110 km (68.35 miles) from the centre of the storm". 
More than 100,000 people were evacuated from coastal areas, according to provincial disaster agencies. 
The core of Surigae, or Bising as the storm is known locally, is not expected to hit land. But with a diameter of 500 km and winds reaching 195 km per hour, parts of the eastern islands of Samar experienced flooding, while several communities lost power. 
The first super typhoon of 2021 foreshadows a busy storm season for the region in the year ahead, experts say. "Early indications are that the 2021 typhoon season will be at least average in activity, and possibly above average," U.S. meteorologist Jeff Masters wrote in a post on Yale Climate Connections' website, which reports daily on climate conditions. Atmospheric scientists say data shows that storms, called typhoons, cyclones or hurricanes in different parts of the world, are getting stronger because of global warming. "The fuel for these storms is warm oceans," said Anne-Claire Fontan, a scientific officer at the World Meteorological Organization based in Geneva. "The global trend is that they are getting stronger, and a higher percentage of total storms will be stronger."
A warmer atmosphere holds more moisture, allowing gale force winds to dump more rain. In particular, water temperature in the western Pacific Ocean is higher than the global average, making it fertile ground for mega storms like Surigae. The region sees more storms than any other part of the world, more than 70% of which develop at the peak of the season between July and October. 
Disaster officials said a 79-year old man from Southern Leyte province in the Philippines was confirmed dead after he was hit by a fallen tree and one person was missing. 
The Philippines sees around 20 tropical storms annually. Last year, the strongest typhoon of the year, Goni, hit the country with gusts of up to 310 km per hour, killing 25 people and forcing the evacuation of more than 345,000. Taiwan, meanwhile, is hoping the storm brings much-needed rain to alleviate a drought, with people taking to social media to welcome it. However, it is expected to veer away from Taiwan out into the Pacific, bringing rain only to the northern part of the island later this week. 